# L

## L1

Layer 1

In the seven-layer OSI model of computer networking, the physical layer
or layer 1 is the first and lowest layer. This layer may be implemented
by a PHY chip.

The physical layer consists of the electronic circuit transmission
technologies of a network. It is a fundamental layer underlying the
higher level functions in a network. Due to the plethora of available
hardware technologies with widely varying characteristics, this is
perhaps the most complex layer in the OSI architecture.

The physical layer defines the means of transmitting raw bits rather
than logical data packets over a physical data link connecting network
nodes. The bitstream may be grouped into code words or symbols and
converted to a physical signal that is transmitted over a transmission
medium. The physical layer provides an electrical, mechanical, and
procedural interface to the transmission medium. The shapes and
properties of the electrical connectors, the frequencies to broadcast
on, the line code to use and similar low-level parameters, are specified
here.\
![](./images/15008464.png?width=480)

## L2

Layer 2

The data link layer, or layer 2, is the second layer of the seven-layer
OSI model of computer networking. This layer is the protocol layer that
transfers data between adjacent network nodes in a wide area network
(WAN) or between nodes on the same local area network (LAN) segment. The
data link layer provides the functional and procedural means to transfer
data between network entities and might provide the means to detect and
possibly correct errors that may occur in the physical layer.

The data link layer is concerned with local delivery of frames between
nodes on the same level of the network. Data-link frames, as these
protocol data units are called, do not cross the boundaries of a local
network. Inter-network routing and global addressing are higher-layer
functions, allowing data-link protocols to focus on local delivery,
addressing, and media arbitration. This way, the data link layer is
analogous to a neighborhood traffic cop; it endeavors to arbitrate
between parties contending for access to a medium, without concern for
their ultimate destination. When devices attempt to use a medium
simultaneously, frame collisions occur. Data-link protocols specify how
devices detect and recover from such collisions, and may provide
mechanisms to reduce or prevent them.

Examples of data link protocols are Ethernet for local area networks
(multi-node), the Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP), HDLC and ADCCP for
point-to-point (dual-node) connections. In the Internet Protocol Suite
(TCP/IP), the data link layer functionality is contained within the link
layer, the lowest layer of the descriptive model.\
![](./images/15008464.png?width=480)

## L2F

Layer 2 Forwarding

L2F, or Layer 2 Forwarding, is a tunneling protocol developed by Cisco
Systems, Inc.Â to establish virtual private network connections over the
Internet. L2F does not provide encryption or confidentiality by itself;
It relies on the protocol being tunneled to provide privacy. L2F was
specifically designed to tunnel Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) traffic.

## L2S

Local Layer 2 Primary Switch Local Exchange (EX4200)

![](./images/15008472.png?width=480)

## L2TP

Layer 2 Tunnelling Protocol

In computer networking, Layer 2 Tunnelling Protocol (L2TP) is a
tunnelling protocol used to support virtual private networks (VPNs) or
as part of the delivery of services by ISPs. It does not provide any
encryption or confidentiality by itself.

## L2TP

Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol

In computer networking, Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP) is a tunneling
protocol used to support virtual private networks (VPNs) or as part of
the delivery of services by ISPs. It does not provide any encryption or
confidentiality by itself. Rather, it relies on an encryption protocol
that it passes within the tunnel to provide privacy.

## L2VPN

Layer 2 Virtual Private Network

A Layer 2 MPLS VPN is a term in computer networking. It is a method that
Internet service providers use to segregate their network for their
customers, to allow them to transmit data over an IP network. This is
often sold as a service to businesses.

Layer 2 VPNs are a type of Virtual Private Network (VPN) that uses MPLS
labels to transport data. The communication occurs between routers that
are known as Provider Edge routers (PEs), as they sit on the edge of the
provider's network, next to the customer's network.

Internet providers who have an existing Layer 2 network (such as ATM or
Frame Relay) may choose to use these VPNs instead of the other common
MPLS VPN, Layer 3. There is no one IETF standard for Layer 2 MPLS VPNs.
Instead, two methodologies may be used. Both methods use a standard MPLS
header to encapsulate data. However, they differ in their signaling
protocols.

## L3VPN

Layer 3 Virtual Private Network

Layer 3 Virtual Private Networks (l3vpn): L3VPN is a technology based on
PE. It uses MPLS to forward VPN packets over service provider backbones.

L3VPN comprises the following types of devices:

Customer edge (CE) device---A CE resides on a customer network and has
one or more interfaces directly connected to service provider networks.
It can be a router, a switch, or a host.

- Provider edge (PE) device---A PE resides at the edge of a service
    provider network and connects one or more CEs. On an MPLS network,
    all VPN services are processed on the PEs.

- Provider (P) device---A P device is a core device on a service
    provider network. It is not directly connected to any CE. It has
    only basic MPLS forwarding capability.

## LAC

L2TP Access Concentrator

The two endpoints of an L2TP tunnel are called the LAC (L2TP Access
Concentrator) and the LNS (L2TP Network Server). The LNS waits for new
tunnels. Once a tunnel is established, the network traffic between the
peers is bidirectional. To be useful for networking, higher-level
protocols are then run through the L2TP tunnel. To facilitate this, an
L2TP session (or 'call') is established within the tunnel for each
higher-level protocol such as PPP. Either the LAC or LNS may initiate
sessions. The traffic for each session is isolated by L2TP, so it is
possible to set up multiple virtual networks across a single tunnel. MTU
should be considered when implementing L2TP.\
![](./images/15008478.png?width=475)

## LACP

Link Aggregation Control Protocol

Within the IEEE specification, the Link Aggregation Control Protocol
(LACP) provides a method to control the bundling of several physical
ports together to form a single logical channel. LACP allows a network
device to negotiate an automatic bundling of links by sending LACP
packets to the peer (directly connected device that also implements
LACP).

LACP Features and practical examples

  - -   Maximum number of bundled ports allowed in the port channel:
        Valid values are usually from 1 to 8.

- LACP packets are sent with multicast group MAC address
    01:80:c2:00:00:02 (01-80-c2-00-00-02)

- During LACP detection period

  - LACP packets are transmitted every second

  - Keep alive mechanism for link member: (default: slow = 30s,
        fast=1s)

- LACP can have the port-channel load-balance mode :

  - link (link-id) Integer that identifies the member link for load
        balancing. The range is from 1 to 8.

- LACP mode :

  - active: Enables LACP unconditionally.

  - passive: Enables LACP only when an LACP device is detected.
        (This is the default state)

## LAG

Link Aggregation Group

In computer networking, the term link aggregation applies to various
methods of combining (aggregating) multiple network connections in
parallel in order to increase throughput beyond what a single connection
could sustain, and to provide redundancy in case one of the links should
fail. A Link Aggregation Group (LAG) combines a number of physical ports
together to make a single high-bandwidth data path, so as to implement
the traffic load sharing among the member ports in the group and to
enhance the connection reliability.

![](./images/15008484.png?width=333)

## LAN

Local Area Network

A local area network (LAN) is a computer network that interconnects
computers within a limited area such as a residence, school, laboratory,
university campus or office building. By contrast, a wide area network
(WAN) not only covers a larger geographic distance, but also generally
involves leased telecommunication circuits.\
![](./images/15008490.png?width=200)

## LANE

ATM LAN Emulation

LAN Emulation (LANE) is a technology that allows an ATM network to
function as a LAN backbone. The ATM network must provide multicast and
broadcast support, address mapping (MAC-to-ATM), SVC management, and a
usable packet format. LANE also defines Ethernet and Token Ring ELANs.

## LAS

MPLS L2/B2B Aggregation Local (M2F)

MPLS L2/B2B Aggregation Local (M2F) - Location: Local

## Latency

Latency refers to a short period of delay (usually measured in
milliseconds) between when an audio signal enters and when it emerges
from a system. Potential contributors to latency in an audio system
include analog-to-digital conversion, buffering, digital signal
processing, transmission time, digital-to-analog conversion and the
speed of sound in the transmission medium.

Latency can be a critical performance metric in professional audio
including sound reinforcement systems, foldback systems (especially
those using in-ear monitors) live radio and television. Excessive audio
latency has the potential to degrade call quality in telecommunications
applications. Low latency audio in computers is important for
interactivity.

Telephone calls\
In all systems, latency can be said to consist of three elements: codec
delay, playout delay and network delay.

Latency in telephone calls is sometimes referred to as mouth-to-ear
delay; the telecommunications industry also uses the term quality of
experience (QoE). Voice quality is measured according to the ITU model;
measurable quality of a call degrades rapidly where the mouth-to-ear
delay latency exceeds 200 milliseconds. The mean opinion score (MOS) is
also comparable in a near-linear fashion with the ITU's quality scale -
defined in standards G.107 (page 800),G.108 and G.109 - with a quality
factor R ranging from 0 to 100. An MOS of 4 ('Good') would have an R
score of 80 or above; to achieve 100R requires an MOS exceeding 4.5.

Cellular calls\
The AMR narrowband codec, used currently in UMTS networks, is a low
bitrate, highly compressed, adaptive bitrate codec achieving rates from
4.75 to 12.2 kbit/s with 'toll quality' (MOS 4.0 or above) from 7.4
kbit/s. 2G networks use the AMR-12.2 codec, equivalent to GSM-EFR. As
mobile operators upgrade existing best-effort networks to support
concurrent multiple types of service over all-IP networks, services such
as Hierarchical Quality of Service (H-QoS) allow for per-user,
per-service QoS policies to prioritise time-sensitive protocols like
voice calls and other wireless backhaul traffic. Along with more
efficient voice codecs, this helps to maintain a sufficient MOS rating
whilst the volume of overall traffic on often oversubscribed mobile
networks increases with demand.

Another overlooked aspect of mobile latency is the inter-network
handoff; as a customer on Network A calls a Network B customer the call
must traverse two separate Radio Access Networks, two core networks and
an interlinking Gateway Mobile Switching Centre (GMSC) which performs
the physical interconnecting between the two providers.

IP calls\
On a stable connection with sufficient bandwidth and minimal latency,
VoIP systems typically have a minimum of 20 ms inherent latency and
target 150 ms as a maximum latency for general consumer use. With
end-to-end QoS managed and assured rate connections, latency can be
reduced to analogue PSTN/POTS levels. Latency is a larger consideration
in these systems when an echo is present therefore popular VoIP codecs
such as G.729 perform complex voice detection and noise suppression.

![](./images/15008496.png?width=480)

## Lawful intercept

Lawful interception (LI) refers to the facilities in telecommunications
and telephone networks that allow law enforcement agencies with court
order or other legal authorization to selectively wiretap individual
subscribers. Most countries require licensed telecommunications
operators to provide their networks with Legal Interception gateways and
nodes for the interception of communications. The interfaces of these
gateways have been standardized by telecommunication standardization
organizations.

With the legacy public switched telephone network (PSTN), wireless, and
cable systems, lawful interception (LI) was generally performed by
accessing the mechanical or digital switches supporting the targets'
calls. The introduction of packet switched networks, softswitch
technology, and server-based applications the past two decades
fundamentally altered how LI is undertaken.

Lawful interception differs from the dragnet-type mass surveillance
sometimes done by intelligence agencies, where all data passing a
fiber-optic splice or other collection point is extracted for storage or
filtering. It is also separate from the data retention of metadata that
has become a legal requirement in some jurisdictions.

## LCR

Least Cost Routing

In voice telecommunications, least-cost routing (LCR) is the process of
selecting the path of outbound communications traffic based on cost.
Within a telecoms carrier, an LCR team might periodically (monthly,
weekly or even daily) choose between routes from several or even
hundreds of carriers for destinations across the world. This function
might also be automated by a device or software program known as a
"Least Cost Router."

## LDAP

The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol is an open, vendor-neutral,
industry standard application protocol for accessing and maintaining
distributed directory information services over an Internet Protocol
(IP) network. Directory services play an important role in developing
intranet and Internet applications by allowing the sharing of
information about users, systems, networks, services, and applications
throughout the network. As examples, directory services may provide any
organized set of records, often with a hierarchical structure, such as a
corporate email directory. Similarly, a telephone directory is a list of
subscribers with an address and a phone number.

LDAP is specified in a series of Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
Standard Track publications called Request for Comments (RFCs), using
the description language ASN.1. The latest specification is Version 3,
published as RFC 4511 (a road map to the technical specifications is
provided by RFC4510).

A common use of LDAP is to provide a central place to store usernames
and passwords. This allows many different applications and services to
connect to the LDAP server to validate users.

LDAP is based on a simpler subset of the standards contained within the
X.500 standard. Because of this relationship, LDAP is sometimes called
X.500-lite.

## Lead Time

Lead Time is the time between a customer order and delivery. In software
development, it can also be the time between a requirement made and its
fulfillment.

## Lean

a method of working focused on 'eliminating waste' by avoiding anything
that does not produce value for the customer.

## lean programming

a concept that emphasizes optimizing efficiency and minimizing waste in
the development of a computer program; the concept is also applicable to
all enterprise practices.

## Leased Line

A leased line is a private bidirectional or symmetric telecommunications
circuit between two or more locations provided in exchange for a monthly
rent. Sometimes known as a private circuit or data line in the UK.

Unlike traditional PSTN lines they do not have telephone numbers, each
side of the line being permanently connected and dedicated to the other.
Leased lines can be used for telephone, Internet, or other data
services. Some are ringdown services, and some connect to a private
branch exchange or router.

Typically, leased lines are used by businesses to connect geographically
distant offices. Unlike dial-up connections, a leased line is always
active. The fee for the connection is a fixed monthly rate. The primary
factors affecting the monthly fee are distance between end points and
the speed of the circuit. Because the connection does not carry anybody
else's communications, the carrier can assure a given level of quality.

An Internet leased line is a premium Internet connectivity product,
normally delivered over fiber, which provides uncontended, symmetrical
speeds with full duplex. It is also known as an ethernet leased line,
dedicated line, data circuit or private line.

For example, a T1 can be leased and provides a maximum transmission
speed of 1.544 Mbit/s. The user can channelize the T1 to separate the 24
DS0 circuits for voice communication, partial the T1 for data and voice
communications, or multiplex the channels into a single data circuit.
Leased lines, as opposed to DSL, are being used by companies and
individuals for Internet access because they afford faster data transfer
rates and are cost-effective for heavy users of the Internet.

## LeSS

large-scale Scrum

agile development method.

## Lifecycle

A model of allÂ *activities*Â between the initial idea for aÂ *system*Â and
its last use, often heavily focused on the creation of theÂ *system*Â as
part of a project. Lifecycles are quite varied, but normally
separateÂ *activities*Â intoÂ *phases*Â that reflect progression of time
and/or grouping of similar activities. Projects select and customize
lifecycles to define ordering and optimize performance ofÂ *activities*Â .

## Lines of Code

LOC\
KLOC

Size measure for a software system that captures the number of lines of
source code in the system. Normally created by a tool that seeks to
count non-comment, non-blank source code instructions.\
KLOC is often used for 'thousands of LOC'.

## Link

Reference to content inside of CxOne, usually denoted as an italicized
file name. Compare toÂ *pointer*.

## Linux

Linux is a family of free and open-source software operating systems
built around the Linux kernel. Typically, Linux is packaged in a form
known as a Linux distribution (or distroÂ forÂ short)Â forÂ both desktop and
server use. The defining component of a Linux distribution is the Linux
kernel, an operating system kernel first released on September 17, 1991,
by Linus Torvalds. Many Linux distributions use the word "Linux" in
their name. The Free Software Foundation uses the name GNU/Linux to
refer to the operating system family, as well as specific distributions,
to emphasize that most Linux distributions are not just the Linux
kernel, and that they have in common not only the kernel, but also
numerous utilities and libraries, a large proportion of which are from
the GNU project.\
![](./images/15008502.png?width=531)

Widely used distributions

- Debian, a non-commercial distribution and one of the earliest,
    maintained by a volunteer developer community with a strong
    commitment to free software principles and democratic project
    management

  - Knoppix, the first Live CD distribution to run completely from
        removable media without installation to a hard disk, derived
        from Debian

  - Linux Mint Debian Edition (LMDE) uses Debian packages directly
        (rather than Ubuntu's)

  - Ubuntu, a desktop and server distribution derived from Debian,
        maintained by British company Canonical Ltd.

    - Kubuntu, the KDE version of Ubuntu

    - Linux Mint, a distribution based on and compatible with
            Ubuntu. Supports multiple desktop environments, among others
            GNOME Shell fork Cinnamon and GNOME 2 fork MATE.

    - Trisquel, an Ubuntu-based distribution based on Linux-libre
            kernel composed entirely of free software

    - Elementary OS, an Ubuntu-based distribution with strong
            focus on the visual experience without sacrificing
            performance.

- Fedora, a community distribution sponsored by American company Red
    Hat and the successor to the company's previous offering, Red Hat
    Linux. It aims to be a technology testbedÂ forÂ Red Hat's commercial
    Linux offering, whereÂ newÂ open source software is prototyped,
    developed, and tested in a communal setting before maturing into Red
    Hat Enterprise Linux.

  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), a derivative of Fedora,
        maintained and commercially supported by Red Hat. It seeks to
        provide tested, secure, and stable Linux server and workstation
        support to businesses.

    - CentOS, a distribution derived from the same sources used by
            Red Hat, maintained by a dedicated volunteer community of
            developers with both 100% Red Hat-compatible versions and an
            upgraded version that is not always 100% upstream
            compatible.

    - Oracle Linux, which is a derivative of Red Hat Enterprise
            Linux, maintained and commercially supported by Oracle

    - Scientific Linux, a distribution derived from the same
            sources used by Red Hat, maintained by Fermilab

- Mandriva Linux was a Red Hat derivative popular in several European
    countries and Brazil, backed by the French company of the same name.
    After the company went bankrupt, it was superseded by OpenMandriva
    Lx,\[20\]\[21\] although a number of derivatives now have a larger
    user base.

  - Mageia, a community fork of Mandriva Linux created in 2010

  - PCLinuxOS, a derivative of Mandriva, which grew from a group of
        packages into a community-spawned desktop distribution

  - ROSA Linux, another former derivative of Mandriva, now developed
        independently

- openSUSE, a community distribution mainly sponsored by German
    company SUSE.

  - SUSE Linux Enterprise, derived from openSUSE, maintained and
        commercially supported by SUSE

- Arch Linux, a rolling release distribution targeted at experienced
    Linux users and maintained by a volunteer community, offers official
    binary packages and a wide range of unofficial user-submitted source
    packages. Packages are usually defined by a single PKGBUILD text
    file.

  - Manjaro Linux, a derivative of Arch Linux that includes a
        graphical installer and other ease-of-use featuresÂ forÂ less
        experienced Linux users. Rolling release packages from Arch
        repositories are heldÂ forÂ further testing to achieve increased
        stability, and packages identified as addressing security issues
        of critical or high severity are "fast-tracked" to the stable
        branch.

- Gentoo, a distribution targeted at power users, knownÂ forÂ its
    FreeBSD Ports-like automated systemÂ forÂ compiling applications from
    source code

  - Chrome OS, Google's commercial operating system (using Gentoo
        and its Portage) that primarily runs web applications

  - Chromium OS, the fully open-source version of Chrome OS

- Slackware, created in 1993, one of the first Linux distributions and
    among the earliest still maintained, committed to remain highly
    Unix-like and easily modifiable byÂ endÂ users

    ![](./images/14647331.svg?width=158)

## lisp

Lisp (historically, LISP) is a family of computer programming languages
with a long history and a distinctive, fully parenthesized prefix
notation. Originally specified in 1958, Lisp is the second-oldest
high-level programming language in widespread use today. Only Fortran is
older, by one year. Lisp has changed since its early days, and many
dialects have existed over its history. Today, the best known
general-purpose Lisp dialects are Common Lisp and Scheme.

Lisp was originally created as a practical mathematical
notationÂ forÂ computer programs, influenced by the notation of Alonzo
Church's lambda calculus. It quickly became the favored programming
languageÂ forÂ artificial intelligence (AI) research. As one of the
earliest programming languages, Lisp pioneered many ideas in computer
science, including tree data structures, automatic storage management,
dynamic typing, conditionals, higher-order functions, recursion, the
self-hosting compiler, and the read--eval--print loop.

The name LISP derives from "LISt Processor". Linked lists are one of
Lisp's major data structures, and Lisp source code is made of lists.
Thus, Lisp programs can manipulate source code as a data structure,
giving rise to the macro systems that allow programmers to
createÂ newÂ syntax orÂ newÂ domain-specific languages embedded in Lisp.

The interchangeability of code and data gives Lisp its instantly
recognizable syntax. All program code is written as s-expressions, or
parenthesized lists. A function call or syntactic form is written as a
list with the function or operator's name first, and the arguments
following;Â forÂ instance, a function f that takes three arguments would
be called as (f arg1 arg2 arg3).

## Lite

Lite

CxOne concept, seeÂ *CxOneOverview*Â for description.

## LL

Local Loop

![](./images/15008514.png?width=481)

## LNS

L2TP Network Server

The two endpoints of an L2TP tunnel are called the LAC (L2TP Access
Concentrator) and the LNS (L2TP Network Server). The LNS waits for new
tunnels. Once a tunnel is established, the network traffic between the
peers is bidirectional.\
![](./images/15008478.png?width=483)

## Local Build

LB

*Build*Â performed in aÂ *local development environment*. Compare
toÂ *project build*.

## Local Development Environment

LDE

AÂ *development environment*Â that is local to an individual engineer.
This is normally the machines in an engineer's office. Compare toÂ *build
environment*.

## Local Loop

In telephony, the local loop (also referred to as a local tail,
subscriber line, or in the aggregate as the last mile) is the physical
link or circuit that connects from the demarcation point of the customer
premises to the edge of the common carrier or telecommunications service
provider's network.

At the edge of the carrier access network in a traditional public
telephone network, the local loop terminates in a circuit switch housed
in an incumbent local exchange carrier or telephone exchange.

## Local Test Environment

LTE

The portion of theÂ *local development environment*Â that
supportsÂ *construction testing*.

## LoFi Prototype

SeeÂ *low fidelity prototype*.

## Low Fidelity Prototype

A mockup of a system using pencil and paper, post-its, or other
non-technology based tools.

## Low Level Design

LLD

Design level betweenÂ *high level design*Â andÂ *construction*. Defines
design in a way that directly supports construction.
SeeÂ *CxStand\_Design*Â for more information.

## LPS

MPLS Primary Switch Local Exchange (M2F)

MPLS Primary Switch Local Exchange (M2F) - Location: Local

## LSP

Label Switched Path

A label-switched path (LSP) is a path through an MPLS network, set up by
a signaling protocol such as LDP, RSVP-TE, BGP (or the now deprecated
CR-LDP). The path is set up based on criteria in the FEC.

The path begins at a label edge router (LER), which makes a decision on
which label to prefix to a packet, based on the appropriate FEC. It then
forwards the packet along to the next router in the path, which swaps
the packet's outer label for another label, and forwards it to the next
router. The last router in the path removes the label from the packet
and forwards the packet based on the header of its next layer, for
example IPv4. Due to the forwarding of packets through an LSP being
opaque to higher network layers, an LSP is also sometimes referred to as
an MPLS tunnel.

The router which first prefixes the MPLS header to a packet is called an
ingress router. The last router in an LSP, which pops the label from the
packet, is called an egress router. Routers in between, which need only
swap labels, are called transit routers or label switch routers (LSRs).

Note that LSPs are unidirectional; they enable a packet to be label
switched through the MPLS network from one endpoint to another. Since
bidirectional communication is typically desired, the aforementioned
dynamic signaling protocols can set up an LSP in the other direction to
compensate for this.

## LSR

Label Switched Router

An MPLS router that performs routing based only on the label is called a
label switch router (LSR) or transit router. This is a type of router
located in the middle of an MPLS network. It is responsible for
switching the labels used to route packets.

## LTE (4G)

Long-Term Evolution (LTE) is a standard for high-speed wireless
communication for mobile devices and data terminals, based on the
GSM/EDGE and UMTS/HSPA technologies. It increases the capacity and speed
using a different radio interface together with core network
improvements. The standard is developed by the 3GPP (3rd Generation
Partnership Project) and is specified in its Release 8 document series,
with minor enhancements described in Release 9. LTE is the upgrade path
for carriers with both GSM/UMTS networks and CDMA2000 networks. The
different LTE frequencies and bands used in different countries mean
that only multi-band phones are able to use LTE in all countries where
it is supported.

LTE is commonly marketed as 4G LTE & Advance 4G, but it does not meet
the technical criteria of a 4G wireless service, as specified in the
3GPP Release 8 and 9 document series for LTE Advanced. The requirements
were originally set forth by the ITU-R organization in the IMT Advanced
specification. However, due to marketing pressures and the significant
advancements that WiMAX, Evolved High Speed Packet Access and LTE bring
to the original 3G technologies, ITU later decided that LTE together
with the aforementioned technologies can be called 4G technologies. The
LTE Advanced standard formally satisfies the ITU-R requirements to be
considered IMT-Advanced.\[4\] To differentiate LTE Advanced and
WiMAX-Advanced from current 4G technologies, ITU has defined them as
"True 4G"

LTE-M

LTE-M (LTE-MTC \[Machine Type Communication\]), which includes eMTC
(enhanced Machine Type Communication), is a type of low power wide area
network (LPWAN) radio technology standard developed by 3GPP to enable a
wide range of cellular devices and services (specifically, for
machine-to-machine and Internet of Things applications). The
specification for eMTC (LTE Cat-M1) was frozen in 3GPP Release 13 (LTE
Advanced Pro), in June 2016. Other 3GPP IoT technologies include NB-IoT
and EC-GSM-IoT.

The advantage of LTE-M over NB-IoT is its comparatively higher data
rate, mobility, and voice over the network, but it requires more
bandwidth, is more costly, and cannot be put into guard band frequency
band for now. Compared to LTE Release 12 Cat-0 modem, an LTE-M model is
claimed to be 80% less expensive (in terms of the bill of materials),
support up to 18 dB better coverage, and a battery lifetime than can
last up to several years. In March 2019, the Global Mobile Suppliers
Association reported that over 100 operators had deployed/launched
either NB-IoT or LTE-M networks.

- **Downlink Peak Rate:**Â 1 Mbit

- **Uplink Peak Rate:**Â 1 Mbit

- **Latency:**Â 10-15 ms

- **Duplex Technology:**Â Half Duplex

- **Device Receive Bandwidth:**Â 1.4MHz to 5MHz

- **Device Transmit Power:**Â 20 dBm

## LTE and Mobile Internet

![](./images/15008520.png?width=278)

## LTS

L2TP Tunnel Switch

L2TP tunnel switching, also known as L2TP multihop, simplifies the
deployment of an L2TP network across multiple domains. A router that
lies between a LAC and an LNS is configured as an L2TP tunnel switch
(LTS)---sometimes referred to simply as a tunnel switch or a tunnel
switching aggregator (TSA). The LTS is configured as both an LNS and a
LAC. When a remote LAC sends encapsulated PPP packets to the LNS
configured on the LTS, the LTS can forward or redirect the packets
through a different tunnel to a different LNS beyond the LTS. The
logical termination point of the original L2TP session is switched to a
different endpoint.\
![](./images/15008526.png?width=485)

## Lua

Lua is a lightweight, multi-paradigm programming language designed
primarilyÂ forÂ embedded use in applications. Lua is cross-platform, since
the interpreter is written in ANSI C, and has a relatively simple C API.

Lua was originally designed in 1993 as a languageÂ forÂ extending software
applications to meet the increasing demandÂ forÂ customization at the
time. It provided the basic facilities of most procedural programming
languages, but more complicated or domain-specific features were not
included; rather, it included mechanismsÂ forÂ extending the language,
allowing programmers to implement such features. As Lua was intended to
be a general embeddable extension language, the designers of Lua focused
on improving its speed, portability, extensibility, and ease-of-use in
development.
