# V

## V Model

In software development, the V-model represents a development process
that may be considered an extension of the waterfall model, and is an
example of the more general V-model. Instead of moving down in a linear
way, the process steps are bent upwards after the coding phase, to form
the typical V shape. The V-Model demonstrates the relationships between
each phase of the development life cycle and its associated phase of
testing. The horizontal and vertical axes represents time or project
completeness (left-to-right) and level of abstraction (coarsest-grain
abstraction uppermost), respectively.\
![](./images/15009151.png?width=446)

## V.90

V.90 is an ITU-T recommendation for a modem, allowing 56 kbit/s digital
download and 33.6 kbit/s analog upload. It replaced two vendor standards
(K56flex and X2) and was designed to allow modems from both prior
standards to be flash upgraded to support it. It was developed between
March 1998 and February 1999. It is also known as V.Last as it was
anticipated to be the last standard for modems operating near the
channel capacity of POTS lines to be developed. V.90 is generally used
in concert with the V.42bis compression standard. A follow-on standard,
V.92, was developed later in 1999 to replace V.90.

## V.92

V.92 is an ITU-T recommendation, titled Enhancements to Recommendation
V.90, that establishes a modem standard allowing near 56 kb/s download
and 48 kb/s upload rates. With V.92 PCM is used for both the upstream
and downstream connections; previously 56K modems only used PCM for
downstream data.

## VAD

Voice Activity Detection

Voice activity detection (VAD), also known as speech activity detection
or speech detection, is a technique used in speech processing in which
the presence or absence of human speech is detected. The main uses of
VAD are in speech coding and speech recognition. It can facilitate
speech processing, and can also be used to deactivate some processes
during non-speech section of an audio session: it can avoid unnecessary
coding/transmission of silence packets in Voice over Internet Protocol
applications, saving on computation and on network bandwidth.

VAD is an important enabling technology for a variety of speech-based
applications. Therefore, various VAD algorithms have been developed that
provide varying features and compromises between latency, sensitivity,
accuracy and computational cost. Some VAD algorithms also provide
further analysis, for example whether the speech is voiced, unvoiced or
sustained. Voice activity detection is usually language independent.

## VB

Visual Basic

Visual Basic is a third-generation event-driven programming language and
integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft for its
Component Object Model (COM) programming model first released in 1991
and declared legacy during 2008. Microsoft intended Visual Basic to be
relatively easy to learn and use. Visual Basic was derived from BASIC
and enables the rapid application development (RAD) of graphical user
interface (GUI) applications, access to databases using Data Access
Objects, Remote Data Objects, or ActiveX Data Objects, and creation of
ActiveX controls and objects.

A programmer can create an application using the components provided by
the Visual Basic program itself. Over time the community of programmers
developed third-party components. Programs written in Visual Basic can
also use the Windows API, which requires external function declarations.

## VBS

VB Script

VBScript ("Microsoft Visual Basic Scripting Edition") is an Active
Scripting language developed by Microsoft that is modeled on Visual
Basic. It allows Microsoft Windows system administrators to generate
powerful tools for managing computers with error handling, subroutines,
and other advanced programming constructs. It can give the user complete
control over many aspects of their computing environment.

VBScript uses the Component Object Model to access elements of the
environment within which it is running; for example, the
FileSystemObject (FSO) is used to create, read, update and delete files.
VBScript has been installed by default in every desktop release of
Microsoft Windows since Windows 98; in Windows Server since Windows NT
4.0 Option Pack; and optionally with Windows CE (depending on the device
it is installed on).

## VC

Virtual Circuit

A virtual circuit (VC) is a means of transporting data over a packet
switched computer network in such a way that it appears as though there
is a dedicated physical layer link between the source and destination
end systems of this data. The term virtual circuit is synonymous with
virtual connection and virtual channel. Before a connection or virtual
circuit may be used, it has to be established, between two or more nodes
or software applications, by configuring the relevant parts of the
interconnecting network. After that, a bit stream or byte stream may be
delivered between the nodes; hence, a virtual circuit protocol allows
higher level protocols to avoid dealing with the division of data into
segments, packets, or frames.

Virtual circuit communication resembles circuit switching, since both
are connection oriented, meaning that in both cases data is delivered in
correct order, and signalling overhead is required during a connection
establishment phase. However, circuit switching provides a constant bit
rate and latency, while these may vary in a virtual circuit service due
to factors such as:

- varying packet queue lengths in the network nodes,

- varying bit rate generated by the application,

- varying load from other users sharing the same network resources by
    means of statistical multiplexing, etc.

    Many virtual circuit protocols, but not all, provide reliable
    communication service through the use of data retransmissions
    because of error detection and automatic repeat request (ARQ).

    An alternate network configuration to virtual circuit is datagram.

## VCI

Virtual Channel Identifier

The VCI, used in conjunction with the VPI (virtual path indicator),
indicates where an ATM cell is to travel over a network. ATM, or
asynchronous transfer mode, is a method that many ISPs (Internet Service
Providers) use to transfer data to client computers. Because ATM sends
packets over fixed channels, the data is easier to track than
information sent over the standard TCP/IP protocol.

The VCI within each ATM cell defines the fixed channel on which the
packet of information should be sent. It is a 16-bit field, compared to
the VPI, which is only 8 bits. Since this numerical tag specifies the
virtual channel that each packet belongs to, it prevents interference
with other data being sent across the network.

## VCID

Virtual Circuit/Channel ID

\
![](./images/15009159.png?width=483)

## VDSL

Very-high-bit-rate digital subscriber line

Very-high-bit-rate digital subscriber line (VDSL) and very-high-bit-rate
digital subscriber line 2 [VDSL2](2) are digital subscriber line (DSL)
technologies providing data transmission faster than asymmetric digital
subscriber line (ADSL).

VDSL offers speeds of up to 52 Mbit/s downstream and 16 Mbit/s upstream,
over a single flat untwisted or twisted pair of copper wires using the
frequency band from 25 kHz to 12 MHz. These rates mean that VDSL is
capable of supporting applications such as high-definition television,
as well as telephone services (voice over IP) and general Internet
access, over a single connection. VDSL is deployed over existing wiring
used for analog telephone service and lower-speed DSL connections. This
standard was approved by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU)
in November 2001.

Second-generation systems (VDSL2; ITU-T G.993.2 approved in February
2006) use frequencies of up to 30 MHz to provide data rates exceeding
100 Mbit/s simultaneously in both the upstream and downstream
directions. The maximum available bit rate is achieved at a range of
about 300 meters; performance degrades as the local loop attenuation
increases.

## Velocity

At the end of each iteration, the team adds up effort estimates
associated with user stories that were completed during that iteration.
This total is called velocity.

## Verifier

Verifies any *rework* for *inspections*.

## Version

A formally released revision of an artifact, recognized by the
configuration management process that oversees the artifact.

## Version Control

Version control is not strictly an Agile "practice" insofar as it is now
widespread in the industry as a whole. But it is mentioned here for
several reasons.

## VHDL

The VHSIC Hardware Description Language (VHDL) is a hardware description
language (HDL) that can model the behavior and structure of digital
systems at multiple levels of abstraction, ranging from the system level
down to that of logic gates, for design entry, documentation, and
verification purposes. Since 1987, VHDL has been standardized by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) as IEEE Std
1076; the latest version (as of April 2020) of which is IEEE Std
1076-2019. To model analog and mixed-signal systems, an
IEEE-standardized HDL based on VHDL called VHDL-AMS (officially IEEE
1076.1) has been developed.

VHDL is named after the United States Department of Defense program that
created it, the Very High-Speed Integrated Circuits Program (VHSIC). In
the early 1980s, the VHSIC Program sought a new HDL for use in the
design of the integrated circuits it aimed to develop. The product of
this effort was VHDL Version 7.2, released in 1985. The effort to
standardize it as an IEEE standard began in the following year.

VHDL is generally used to write text models that describe a logic
circuit. Such a model is processed by a synthesis program, only if it is
part of the logic design. A simulation program is used to test the logic
design using simulation models to represent the logic circuits that
interface to the design. This collection of simulation models is
commonly called a testbench.

A VHDL simulator is typically an event-driven simulator. This means that
each transaction is added to an event queue for a specific scheduled
time. E.g. if a signal assignment should occur after 1 nanosecond, the
event is added to the queue for time +1ns. Zero delay is also allowed,
but still needs to be scheduled: for these cases delta delay is used,
which represent an infinitely small time step. The simulation alters
between two modes: statement execution, where triggered statements are
evaluated, and event processing, where events in the queue are
processed.

VHDL has constructs to handle the parallelism inherent in hardware
designs, but these constructs (processes) differ in syntax from the
parallel constructs in Ada (tasks). Like Ada, VHDL is strongly typed and
is not case sensitive. In order to directly represent operations which
are common in hardware, there are many features of VHDL which are not
found in Ada, such as an extended set of Boolean operators including
nand and nor.

VHDL has file input and output capabilities, and can be used as a
general-purpose language for text processing, but files are more
commonly used by a simulation testbench for stimulus or verification
data. There are some VHDL compilers which build executable binaries. In
this case, it might be possible to use VHDL to write a testbench to
verify the functionality of the design using files on the host computer
to define stimuli, to interact with the user, and to compare results
with those expected. However, most designers leave this job to the
simulator.

It is relatively easy for an inexperienced developer to produce code
that simulates successfully but that cannot be synthesized into a real
device, or is too large to be practical. One particular pitfall is the
accidental production of transparent latches rather than D-type
flip-flops as storage elements.

One can design hardware in a VHDL IDE (for FPGA implementation such as
Xilinx ISE, Altera Quartus, Synopsys Synplify or Mentor Graphics HDL
Designer) to produce the RTL schematic of the desired circuit. After
that, the generated schematic can be verified using simulation software
which shows the waveforms of inputs and outputs of the circuit after
generating the appropriate testbench. To generate an appropriate
testbench for a particular circuit or VHDL code, the inputs have to be
defined correctly. For example, for clock input, a loop process or an
iterative statement is required.

A final point is that when a VHDL model is translated into the "gates
and wires" that are mapped onto a programmable logic device such as a
CPLD or FPGA, then it is the actual hardware being configured, rather
than the VHDL code being "executed" as if on some form of a processor
chip.

-- (this is a VHDL comment) /*this is a block comment (VHDL-2008)*/ --
import std\_logic from the IEEE library library IEEE; use
IEEE.std\_logic\_1164.all;

-- this is the entity entity ANDGATE is port ( I1 : in std\_logic; I2 :
in std\_logic; O : out std\_logic); end entity ANDGATE;

-- this is the architecture architecture RTL of ANDGATE is begin O \<=
I1 and I2;

library IEEE; use IEEE.std\_logic\_1164.all; use IEEE.numeric\_std.all;
-- for the unsigned type

entity COUNTER is generic ( WIDTH : in natural := 32); port ( RST : in
std\_logic; CLK : in std\_logic; LOAD : in std\_logic; DATA : in
std\_logic\_vector(WIDTH-1 downto 0); Q : out std\_logic\_vector(WIDTH-1
downto 0)); end entity COUNTER;

architecture RTL of COUNTER is

begin process(all) is begin if RST then Q \<= (others =\> '0'); elsif
rising\_edge(CLK) then if LOAD then Q \<= DATA; else Q \<=
std\_logic\_vector(unsigned(Q) + 1); --Addition is unsigned, converted
back to std\_logic\_vector end if; end if; end process;

end architecture RTL;

## VISP

Virtual ISP

A Virtual ISP (VISP), also known as an Affinity ISP, is an Internet
Service Provider (ISP) that resells the resources of existing ISPs under
another brand name.

## VLAN

Virtual LAN

A virtual LAN (VLAN) is any broadcast domain that is partitioned and
isolated in a computer network at the data link layer (OSI layer
2).\[1\]\[2\] LAN is the abbreviation for local area network and in this
context virtual refers to a physical object recreated and altered by
additional logic. VLANs work by applying tags to network packets and
handling these tags in networking systems -- creating the appearance and
functionality of network traffic that is physically on a single network
but acts as if it is split between separate networks. In this way, VLANs
can keep network applications separate despite being connected to the
same physical network, and without requiring multiple sets of cabling
and networking devices to be deployed.

![](./images/15009165.png?width=478)

## VLR

Visitor Location Register

The Visitor Location Register (VLR) is a database of the MSs (Mobile
stations) that have roamed into the jurisdiction of the MSC (Mobile
Switching Center) which it serves. Each main base station in the network
is served by exactly one VLR (one BTS may be served by many MSCs in case
of MSC in pool), hence a subscriber cannot be present in more than one
VLR at a time.

The data stored in the VLR has either been received from the Home
Location Register (HLR), or collected from the MS. In practice, for
performance reasons, most vendors integrate the VLR directly to the
V-MSC and, where this is not done, the VLR is very tightly linked with
the MSC via a proprietary interface. Whenever an MSC detects a new MS in
its network, in addition to creating a new record in the VLR, it also
updates the HLR of the mobile subscriber, apprising it of the new
location of that MS. If VLR data is corrupted it can lead to serious
issues with text messaging and call services.

Data stored include:

- IMSI (the subscriber's identity number).

- Authentication data.

- MSISDN (the subscriber's phone number).

- GSM services that the subscriber is allowed to access.

- access point (GPRS) subscribed.

- The HLR address of the subscriber.

- SCP Address(For Prepaid Subscriber).

## VM

Virtual Machine

In computing, a virtual machine (VM) is an emulation of a computer
system. Virtual machines are based on computer architectures and provide
functionality of a physical computer. Their implementations may involve
specialized hardware, software, or a combination.

## VOD

Video On Demand

Video on demand is a programming system which allows users to select and
watch/listen to video or audio content such as movies and TV shows
whenever they choose, rather than at a scheduled broadcast time, the
method that prevailed with over-the-air programming during the 20th
century. IPTV technology is commonly used to bring VOD to televisions
and personal computers.

Television VOD systems can stream content through either a set-top box,
a computer or other device, allowing viewing in real time, or download
it to a device such as a computer, digital video recorder (also called a
personal video recorder) or portable media player for viewing at any
time. The majority of cable- and telephone company-based television
providers offer:

- VOD streaming, whereby a user selects a video program and it begins
    to play immediately on the television set, or

- downloading to a digital video recorder (DVR) rented or purchased
    from the provider, or downloading onto a PC or to a portable device,
    for viewing in the future.

- Internet television, using the Internet, is an increasingly popular
    form of video on demand. VOD can also be accessed via desktop client
    applications such as the Apple iTunes online content store.

    Some airlines offer VOD as in-flight entertainment to passengers
    through individually controlled video screens embedded in seatback
    or armrests or offered via portable media players. Some video on
    demand services, such as Netflix, use a subscription model that
    requires users to pay a monthly fee to access a bundled set of
    content, which is mainly movies and TV shows. Other services use an
    advertising-based model, where access is free.

## VoIP

Voice over IP

Voice over Internet Protocol (also voice over IP, VoIP or IP telephony)
is a methodology and group of technologies for the delivery of voice
communications and multimedia sessions over Internet Protocol (IP)
networks, such as the Internet. The terms Internet telephony, broadband
telephony, and broadband phone service specifically refer to the
provisioning of communications services (voice, fax, SMS,
voice-messaging) over the public Internet, rather than via the public
switched telephone network (PSTN).

Voice over IP has been implemented in various ways using both
proprietary protocols and protocols based on open standards. These
protocols can be used by a VoIP phone, special-purpose software, a
mobile application or integrated into a web page. VoIP protocols
include:

- Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), connection management protocol
    developed by the IETF

- H.323, one of the first VoIP call signaling and control protocols
    that found widespread implementation. Since the development of
    newer, less complex protocols such as MGCP and SIP, H.323
    deployments are increasingly limited to carrying existing long-haul
    network traffic.\[citation needed\]

- Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP), connection management for
    media gateways

- H.248, control protocol for media gateways across a converged
    internetwork consisting of the traditional public switched telephone
    network (PSTN) and modern packet networks

- Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP), transport protocol for real-time
    audio and video data

- Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP), sister protocol for RTP
    providing stream statistics and status information

- Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP), encrypted version of RTP

- Session Description Protocol (SDP), file format used principally by
    SIP to describe VoIP connections

- Inter-Asterisk eXchange (IAX), protocol used between VoIP servers

- Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP), instant
    messaging, presence information, and contact list maintenance

- Jingle, adds peer-to-peer session control to XMPP

- Skype protocol, proprietary Internet telephony protocol suite based
    on peer-to-peer architecture

    ![](./images/15009171.png?width=251)

## VoLTE

Voice over Long-Term Evolution

Voice over Long-Term Evolution (VoLTE) is a standard for high-speed
wireless communication for mobile phones and data terminals - including
IoT devices and wearables. It is based on the IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) network, with specific profiles for control and media planes of
voice service on LTE defined by GSMA in PRD IR.92. This approach results
in the voice service (control and media planes) being delivered as data
flows within the LTE data bearer. This means that there is no dependency
on (or ultimately, requirement for) the legacy circuit-switched voice
network to be maintained. VoLTE has up to three times more voice and
data capacity than 3G UMTS and up to six times more than 2G GSM.
Furthermore, it frees up bandwidth because VoLTE's packets headers are
smaller than those of unoptimized VoIP/LTE.

## Vorbis

Vorbis is a free and open-source software project headed by the Xiph.Org
Foundation. The project produces an audio coding format and software
reference encoder/decoder (codec) for lossy audio compression. Vorbis is
most commonly used in conjunction with the Ogg container format and it
is therefore often referred to as Ogg Vorbis.

## VPI

Virtual Path Identifier

See VCI

## VPLS

Virtual Private LAN Service

Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) is a way to provide Ethernet-based
multipoint to multipoint communication over IP or MPLS networks. It
allows geographically dispersed sites to share an Ethernet broadcast
domain by connecting sites through pseudowires. The term 'sites'
includes multiplicities of both servers and clients. The technologies
that can be used as pseudo-wire can be Ethernet over MPLS, L2TPv3 or
even GRE. There are two IETF standards track RFCs (RFC 4761 and RFC
4762) describing VPLS establishment.

VPLS is a virtual private network (VPN) technology. In contrast to
L2TPv3, which allows only point-to-point layer 2 tunnels, VPLS allows
any-to-any (multipoint) connectivity.

In a VPLS, the local area network (LAN) at each site is extended to the
edge of the provider network. The provider network then emulates a
switch or bridge to connect all of the customer LANs to create a single
bridged LAN.

VPLS is designed for applications that require multipoint or broadcast
access.\
![](./images/15009177.png?width=480)

## VPN

Virtual Private Network

A virtual private network (VPN) extends a private network across a
public network, and enables users to send and receive data across shared
or public networks as if their computing devices were directly connected
to the private network. Applications running across a VPN may therefore
benefit from the functionality, security, and management of the private
network.

![](./images/15009183.png?width=330)

## VPWS

Virtual Private Wire Service

Virtual Leased Lines (VLL) is a way to provide Ethernet-based point to
point communication over IP/MPLS networks.

The term Virtual Leased Line is also used to describe a point to point
bonded connection using the Broadband Bonding technology. This
implementation is bonded in layer 4.

In the industry, the technology is also referred to as Virtual Private
Wire Service (VPWS) or EoMPLS (Ethernet over MPLS).

VLL uses the pseudo-wire encapsulation for transporting Ethernet traffic
over an MPLS tunnel across an IP/MPLS backbone.

## VRF

Virtual (VPN) Routing and Forwarding

In IP-based computer networks, (VRF) is a technology that allows
multiple instances of a routing table to co-exist within the same router
at the same time. Because the routing instances are independent, the
same or overlapping IP addresses can be used without conflicting with
each other. Network functionality is improved because network paths can
be segmented without requiring multiple routers.

Cisco implementation - VPN routing and forwarding, the key element in
the Cisco MPLS VPN technology

![](./images/15009189.png?width=481)
