# Hash Function


hash function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary
size to data of a fixed size. The values returned by a hash function are
called hash values, hash codes, digests, or simply hashes. Hash
functions are often used in combination with a hash table, a common data
structure used in computer software for rapid data lookup. Hash
functions accelerate table or database lookup by detecting duplicated
records in a large file. One such application is finding similar
stretches in DNA sequences. They are also useful in cryptography. A
cryptographic hash function allows one to easily verify that some input
data maps to a given hash value, but if the input data is unknown, it is
deliberately difficult to reconstruct it (or any equivalent
alternatives) by knowing the stored hash value. This is
used for assuring integrity of transmitted data, and is the building
block for HMACs, which provide message authentication.

Hash functions are related to (and often confused with) checksums, check
digits, fingerprints, lossy compression, randomization functions,
error-correcting codes, and ciphers. Although the concepts overlap to
some extent, each one has its own uses and requirements and is designed
and optimized differently. The HashKeeper database maintained by the
American National Drug Intelligence Center, for instance, is more aptly
described as a catalogue of file fingerprints than of hash values.\
![](./images/15008318.png?width=300)

