# AOP


aspect-oriented programming

In computing, aspect-oriented programming (AOP) is a programming
paradigm that aims to increase modularity by allowing the separation of
cross-cutting concerns. It does so by adding additional behavior to
existing code (an advice) without modifying the code itself, instead
separately specifying which code is modified via a "pointcut"
specification, such as "log all function calls when the function's name
begins with 'set'". This allows behaviors that are not central to the
business logic (such as logging) to be added to a program without
cluttering the code, core to the functionality. AOP forms a basis for
aspect-oriented software development.

AOP includes programming methods and tools that support the
modularization of concerns at the level of the source code, while
"aspect-oriented software development" refers to a whole engineering
discipline.

Aspect-oriented programming entails breaking down program logic into
distinct parts (so-called concerns, cohesive areas of functionality).
Nearly all programming paradigms support some level of grouping and
encapsulation of concerns into separate, independent entities by
providing abstractions (e.g., functions, procedures, modules, classes,
methods) that can be used for implementing, abstracting and composing
these concerns. Some concerns "cut across" multiple abstractions in a
program, and defy these forms of implementation. These concerns are
called cross-cutting concerns or horizontal concerns.

Logging exemplifies a crosscutting concern because a logging strategy
necessarily affects every logged part of the system. Logging thereby
crosscuts all logged classes and methods.

All AOP implementations have some crosscutting expressions that
encapsulate each concern in one place. The difference between
implementations lies in the power, safety, and usability of the
constructs provided. For example, interceptors that specify the methods
to intercept express a limited form of crosscutting, without much
support for type-safety or debugging. AspectJ has a number of such
expressions and encapsulates them in a special class, an aspect. For
example, an aspect can alter the behavior of the base code (the
non-aspect part of a program) by applying advice (additional behavior)
at various join points (points in a program) specified in a
quantification or query called a pointcut (that detects whether a given
join point matches). An aspect can also make binary-compatible
structural changes to other classes, like adding members or parents.

