# AWS


Amazon Web Services

Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a subsidiary of Amazon.com that provides
on-demand cloud computing platforms to individuals, companies and
governments, on a paid subscription basis. The technology allows
subscribers to have at their disposal a virtual cluster of computers,
available all the time, through the Internet. AWS's version of virtual
computers emulate most of the attributes of a real computer including
hardware (CPU(s) & GPU(s) for processing, local/RAM memory,
hard-disk/SSD storage); a choice of operating systems; networking; and
pre-loaded application software such as web servers, databases, CRM,
etc. Each AWS system also virtualizes its console I/O (keyboard,
display, and mouse), allowing AWS subscribers to connect to their AWS
system using a modern browser. The browser acts as a window into the
virtual computer, letting subscribers log-in, configure and use their
virtual systems just as they would a real physical computer. They can
choose to deploy their AWS systems to provide internet-based services
for themselves and their customers.

The AWS technology is implemented at server farms throughout the world,
and maintained by the Amazon subsidiary. Fees are based on a combination
of usage, the hardware/OS/software/networking features chosen by the
subscriber, required availability, redundancy, security, and service
options. Subscribers can pay for a single virtual AWS computer, a
dedicated physical computer, or clusters of either. As part of the
subscription agreement, Amazon provides security for subscribers'
system. AWS operates from many global geographical regions including 6
in North America.

