# NoSQL


A NoSQL (originally referring to "non SQL" or "non relational") database
provides a mechanism for storage and retrieval of data that is modeled
in means other than the tabular relations used in relational databases.
Such databases have existed since the late 1960s, but did not obtain the
"NoSQL" moniker until a surge of popularity in the early twenty-first
century, triggered by the needs of Web 2.0 companies. NoSQL databases
are increasingly used in big data and real-time web applications. NoSQL
systems are also sometimes called "Not only SQL" to emphasize that they
may support SQL-like query languages.

Motivations for this approach include: simplicity of design, simpler
"horizontal" scaling to clusters of machines (which is a
problem for relational databases), and finer control over availability.
The data structures used by NoSQL databases (e.g. key-value, wide
column, graph, or document) are different from those used by default in
relational databases, making some operations faster in NoSQL. The
particular suitability of a given NoSQL database depends on the problem
it must solve. Sometimes the data structures used by NoSQL databases are
also viewed as "more flexible" than relational database tables.

Many NoSQL stores compromise consistency (in the sense of the CAP
theorem) in favor of availability, partition tolerance, and speed.
Barriers to the greater adoption of NoSQL stores include the use of
low-level query languages (instead of SQL, for instance the lack of
ability to perform ad-hoc joins across tables), lack of standardized
interfaces, and huge previous investments in existing relational
databases.\[ Most NoSQL stores lack true ACID transactions, although a
few databases, such as MarkLogic, Aerospike, FairCom c-treeACE, Google
Spanner (though technically a NewSQL database), Symas LMDB, and OrientDB
have made them central to their designs. (See ACID and join support.)

Instead, most NoSQL databases offer a concept of "eventual consistency"
in which database changes are propagated to all nodes "eventually"
(typically within milliseconds) so queries for data might not return
updated data immediately or might result in reading data that is not
accurate, a problem known as stale reads. Additionally, some NoSQL
systems may exhibit lost writes and other forms of data loss. Some NoSQL
systems provide concepts such as write-ahead logging to avoid data
loss. For distributed transaction processing across multiple databases,
data consistency is an even bigger challenge that is difficult for both
NoSQL and relational databases. Even current relational databases "do
not allow referential integrity constraints to span databases." There
are few systems that maintain both ACID transactions and X/Open XA
standards for distributed transaction processing.

