# Wi-Fi


Wi-Fi or WiFi is technology for radio wireless local area networking of
devices based on the IEEE 802.11 standards. Wi Fi is a trademark of the
Wi-Fi Alliance, which restricts the use of the term Wi-Fi Certified to
products that successfully complete interoperability certification
testing.

Devices that can use Wi-Fi technology include desktops and laptops,
video game consoles, smartphones and tablets, smart TVs, digital audio
players and modern printers. Wi-Fi compatible devices can connect to the
Internet via a WLAN and a wireless access point. Such an access point
(or hotspot) has a range of about 20 meters (66 feet) indoors and a
greater range outdoors. Hotspot coverage can be as small as a single
room with walls that block radio waves, or as large as many square
kilometres achieved by using multiple overlapping access points.

Depiction of a device sending information wirelessly to another device,
both connected to the local network, in order to print a document\
Wi-Fi most commonly uses the 2.4 gigahertz (12 cm) UHF and 5.8 gigahertz
(5 cm) SHF ISM radio bands, these bands are subdivided into multiple
channels. Each channel can be time-shared by multiple networks. These
wavelengths work best for line-of-sight. Many common materials absorb or
reflect them, which further restricts range, but can tend to help
minimise interference between different networks in crowded
environments. At close range, some versions of Wi-Fi, running on
suitable hardware\[disambiguation needed\] can achieve speeds of over 1
Gbps.

Anyone within range with a wireless network interface controller can
attempt to access a network; because of this, Wi-Fi is more vulnerable
to attack (called eavesdropping) than wired networks. Wi-Fi Protected
Access is a family of technologies created to protect information moving
across Wi-Fi networks and includes solutions for personal and enterprise
networks. Security features of Wi-Fi Protected Access have included
stronger protections and new security practices as the security
landscape has changed over time.

