# Wireless Mesh Network


\
![](./images/15009225.png?width=479)\
A wireless mesh network (WMN) is a communications network made up of
radio nodes organized in a mesh topology. It is also a form of wireless
ad hoc network.

A mesh refers to rich interconnection among devices or nodes. Wireless
mesh networks often consist of mesh clients, mesh routers and gateways.
Mobility of nodes is less frequent. If nodes were to constantly or
frequently move, the mesh will spend more time updating routes than
delivering data. In a wireless mesh network, topology tends to be more
static, so that routes computation can converge and delivery of data to
their destinations can occur. Hence, this is a low-mobility centralized
form of wireless ad hoc network. Also, because it sometimes relies on
static nodes to act as gateways, it is not a truly all-wireless ad hoc
network.

The mesh clients are often laptops, cell phones and other wireless
devices while the mesh routers forward traffic to and from the gateways
which may, but need not, be connected to the Internet. The coverage area
of the radio nodes working as a single network is sometimes called a
mesh cloud. Access to this mesh cloud is dependent on the radio nodes
working in harmony with each other to create a radio network. A mesh
network is reliable and offers redundancy. When one node can no longer
operate, the rest of the nodes can still communicate with each other,
directly or through one or more intermediate nodes. Wireless mesh
networks can self form and self heal. Wireless mesh networks work with
different wireless technologies including 802.11, 802.15, 802.16,
cellular technologies and need not be restricted to any one technology
or protocol.

