# Pen testing


Penetration Testing

A penetration test, colloquially known as a pen test, is an authorized
simulated attack on a computer system, performed to evaluate the
security of the system. The test is performed to identify both
weaknesses (also referred to as vulnerabilities), including the
potential for unauthorized parties to gain access to the system's
features and data, as well as strengths, enabling a full risk assessment
to be completed.

The process typically identifies the target systems and a particular
goal---then reviews available information and undertakes various means
to attain the goal. A penetration test target may be a white box (which
provides background and system information) or black box (which provides
only basic or no information except the company name). A penetration
test can help determine whether a system is vulnerable to attack if the
defenses were sufficient, and which defenses (if any) the test defeated.

Security issues that the penetration test uncovers should be reported to
the system owner. Penetration test reports may also assess potential
impacts to the organization and suggest countermeasures to reduce risk.

The goals of a penetration test vary depending on the type of approved
activity for any given engagement with the primary goal focused on
finding vulnerabilities that could be exploited by a nefarious actor and
informing the client of those vulnerabilities along with recommended
mitigation strategies.

Penetration tests are a component of a full security audit. For example,
the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard requires penetration
testing on a regular schedule, and after system changes.

Flaw hypothesis methodology is a systems analysis and penetration
prediction technique where a list of hypothesized flaws in a software
system are compiled through analysis of the specifications and
documentation for the system. The list of hypothesized flaws is then
prioritized on the basis of the estimated probability that a flaw
actually exists, and on the ease of exploiting it to the extent of
control or compromise. The prioritized list is used to direct the actual
testing of the system.

