# PLL


Phase Locked Loop

A phase-locked loop or phase lock loop abbreviated as PLL is a control
system that generates an output signal whose phase is related to the
phase of an input signal. There are several different types; the
simplest is an electronic circuit consisting of a variable frequency
oscillator and a phase detector in a feedback loop. The oscillator
generates a periodic signal, and the phase detector compares the phase
of that signal with the phase of the input periodic signal, adjusting
the oscillator to keep the phases matched.

Keeping the input and output phase in lock step also implies keeping the
input and output frequencies the same. Consequently, in addition to
synchronizing signals, a phase-locked loop can track an input frequency,
or it can generate a frequency that is a multiple of the input
frequency. These properties are used for computer clock synchronization,
demodulation, and frequency synthesis.

Phase-locked loops are widely employed in radio, telecommunications,
computers and other electronic applications. They can be used to
demodulate a signal, recover a signal from a noisy communication
channel, generate a stable frequency at multiples of an input frequency
(frequency synthesis), or distribute precisely timed clock pulses in
digital logic circuits such as microprocessors. Since a single
integrated circuit can provide a complete phase-locked-loop building
block, the technique is widely used in modern electronic devices, with
output frequencies from a fraction of a hertz up to many gigahertz.

