# CESG


Communication-Electronics Security Group

CESG is the UK government's national technical authority for information
assurance (IA). It protects the UK by providing policy and assistance on
the security of communications and electronic data, in partnership with
industry and academia.

The group is known as CESG. It dropped the expanded name of
Communications-Electronics Security Group in 2002 because it no longer
described the full extent of its work. CESG has existed since World War
I when it advised on the security of British codes and ciphers. Since
1997, it has charged a fee for most of the information security services
it offers rather than being funded by central government.

UK central government departments and agencies and the armed forces are
CESG's main customers. CESG also works with the wider public sector,
including health service, law enforcement, local government and the
utility companies that provide the services that form the UK's critical
national infrastructure.

CESG provides information assurance products and services and
accreditation for consultants in industry. It also produces policy and
guidance on biometrics and runs GovCertUK, the Computer Emergency
Response Team (CERT) for UK government, assisting public sector
organizations in their response to computer security incidents and
providing advice to reduce their exposure to security threats.

Other services provided by CESG include Information Assurance Maturity
Model (IAMM) assessment services for organisations wishing to check
their progress towards the National IA Strategy and security awareness
training for government clients.

