# Cobol


COBOL is a compiled English-like computer programming language
designed for business use. It is imperative, procedural and, since 2002,
object-oriented. COBOL is primarily used in business, finance, and
administrative systems for companies and governments. COBOL is still
widely used in legacy applications deployed on mainframe computers, such
as large-scale batch and transaction processing jobs. But due to its
declining popularity and the retirement of experienced COBOL
programmers, programs are being migrated to new platforms, rewritten in
modern languages or replaced with software packages. Most programming in
COBOL is now purely to maintain existing applications.

COBOL was designed in 1959 by CODASYL and was partly based on previous
programming language design work by Grace Hopper, commonly referred to
as "the (grand)mother of COBOL". It was created as part of a US
Department of Defense effort to create a portable programming
language for data processing. Intended as a stopgap, the Department of
Defense promptly forced computer manufacturers to provide it, resulting
in its widespread adoption. It was standardized in 1968 and has since
been revised four times. Expansions include support for structured and
object-oriented programming. The current standard is ISO/IEC 1989:2014.

COBOL statements have an English-like syntax, which were designed to be
self-documenting and highly readable. However, it is verbose and uses
over 300 reserved words. In contrast with modern, succinct syntax like y
= x;, COBOL has a more English-like syntax (in this case, MOVE x TO y).
COBOL code is split into four divisions (identification, environment,
data and procedure) containing a rigid hierarchy of sections, paragraphs
and sentences. Lacking a large standard library, the standard specifies
43 statements, 87 functions and just one class.

