# SystemX


2nd national digital telephone exchange system to be used in the United
Kingdom.

System X was developed by the UK Post Office (later to become British
Telecom), GEC, Plessey (later to be Marconi), and Standard Telephones
and Cables (STC).

System X covers three main types of telephone switching equipment. Many
of these switches reside all over the United Kingdom. Concentrators are
usually kept in local telephone exchanges but can be housed remotely in
less populated areas. DLEs and DMSUs operate in major towns and cities
and provide call routing functions.

Concentrator unit\
The concentrator unit consists of four main sub-systems, line modules,
digital concentrator switch, digital line termination (DLT) units and
control unit. Its purpose is to convert speech from analogue signals to
digital format and concentrate the traffic for onward transmission to
the digital local exchange (DLE). It also receives dialled information
from the subscriber and passes this to the DLE, so that the call can be
routed to its destination. In normal circumstances, it does not switch
signals between subscriber lines but has limited capacity to do this if
the connection to the DLE is lost.

Digital local exchange\
The Digital Local Exchange (DLE) connects to the concentrator and routes
calls to different DLEs or DMSUs depending on the destination of the
call. The heart of the DLE is the Digital Subscriber Switching Subsystem
(DSSS) which consists of Time Switches and a Space Switch. Incoming
traffic on the 30 channel PCM highways from the Concentrator Units is
connected to Time Switches. The purpose of these is to take any incoming
individual Time Slot and connect it to an outgoing Time Slot and so
perform a switching and routing function.

Digital main switching unit\
The Digital Main Switching Unit (DMSU) deals with calls that have been
routed by DLEs or another DMSU and is a 'trunk switch', i.e.Â it is not
connected to any concentrators. As with DLEs, DMSUs are made up of a
Digital Switching Subsystem and a Processor Utility Subsystem, amongst
other things. In the British PSTN network, each DMSU is connected to
every other DMSU in the country, enabling almost congestion-proof
connectivity for calls through the network.

Replacement system\
Many of the switches installed during the 1980s are near to or over 30
years old and still in use within local exchanges, giving an idea of
their reliability.

System X was scheduled for replacement with Next Generation softswitch
equipment as part of the BT 21st Century Network (21CN) programme. Some
other users of System X -- in particular Jersey Telecom and Kingston
Communications -- replaced their circuit switched System X equipment
with Marconi XCD5000 softswitches (which are the NGN replacement for
System X) and Access Hub multiservice access nodes. However, the
omission of Marconi from the BT 21CN supplier list, the lack of a
suitable replacement softswitch to match System X reliability, and the
shift in focus away from telephony onto broadband -- all led to much of
the System X estate being maintained.