# Unified Communications


Unified communications (UC) is a business and marketing concept
describing the integration of enterprise communication services such as
instant messaging (chat), presence information, voice (including IP
telephony), mobility features (including extension mobility and single
number reach), audio, web & video conferencing, fixed-mobile convergence
(FMC), desktop sharing, data sharing (including web connected electronic
interactive whiteboards), call control and speech recognition with
non-real-time communication services such as unified messaging
(integrated voicemail, e-mail, SMS and fax). UC is not necessarily a
single product, but a set of products that provides a consistent unified
user interface and user experience across multiple devices and media
types.

In its broadest sense, the UC can encompass all forms of communications
that are exchanged via a network to include other forms of
communications such as Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) and digital
signage Communications as they become an integrated part of the network
communications deployment and may be directed as one-to-one
communications or broadcast communications from one to many.

UC allows an individual to send a message on one medium and receive the
same communication on another medium. For example, one can receive a
voicemail message and choose to access it through e-mail or a cell
phone. If the sender is online according to the presence information and
currently accepts calls, the response can be sent immediately through
text chat or a video call. Otherwise, it may be sent as a non-real-time
message that can be accessed through a variety of media.

