# H.248


The Gateway Control Protocol (Megaco, H.248) is an implementation of the
media gateway control protocol architecture for providing
telecommunication services across a converged internetwork consisting of
the traditional public switched telephone network (PSTN) and modern
packet networks, such as the Internet. H.248 is the designation of the
recommendations developed by the ITU Telecommunication Standardization
Sector (ITU-T) and Megaco is a contraction of media gateway control
protocol used by the earliest specifications by the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF). The standard published in March 2013 by ITU-T is
entitled H.248.1: Gateway control protocol: Version 3.

Megaco/H.248 follows the guidelines published in RFC 2805 in April 2000,
entitled Media Gateway Control Protocol Architecture and Requirements.
The protocol performs the same functions as the Media Gateway Control
Protocol (MGCP), is however a formal standard while MGCP has only
informational status. Using different syntax and symbolic
representation, the two protocols are not directly interoperable. They
are both complementary to H.323 and the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) protocols.

H.248 was the result of collaboration of the MEGACO working group of the
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and the International
Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Study Group 16. The IETF
originally published the standard as RFC 3015, which was superseded by
RFC 3525. The term Megaco is the IETF designation. Megaco combines
concepts from MGCP and the Media Device Control Protocol (MDCP). MGCP
originated from a combination of the Simple Gateway Control Protocol
(SGCP) with the Internet Protocol Device Control (IPDC).

After the ITU took responsibility of the protocol maintenance, the IETF
reclassified its publications as historic in RFC 5125. The ITU has
published three versions of H.248, the most recent in September 2005.
H.248 encompasses not only the base protocol specification in H.248.1,
but many extensions defined throughout the H.248 sub-series.

![](./images/15008304.png?width=480)

