# Complier


A compiler is computer software that transforms computer code written in
one programming language (the source language) into another programming
language (the target language). Compilers are a type of translator that
support digital devices, primarily computers. The name compiler is
primarily used for programs that translate source code from a high-level
programming language to a lower level language (e.g., assembly language,
object code, or machine code) to create an executable program.

However, there are many different types of compilers. If the compiled
program can run on a computer whose CPU or operating system is different
from the one on which the compiler runs, the compiler is a
cross-compiler. A bootstrap compiler is written in the language that it
intends to compile. A program that translates from a low-level language
to a higher level one is a decompiler. A program that translates between
high-level languages is usually called a source-to-source compiler or
transpiler. A language rewriter is usually a program that translates the
form of expressions without a change of language. The term
compiler-compiler refers to tools used to create parsers that perform
syntax analysis.

A compiler is likely to perform many or all of the following operations:
preprocessing, lexical analysis, parsing, semantic analysis
(syntax-directed translation), conversion of input programs to an
intermediate representation, code optimization and code generation.
Compilers implement these operations in phases that promote efficient
design and correct transformations of source input to target output.
Program faults caused by incorrect compiler behavior can be very
difficult to track down and work around; therefore, compiler
implementers invest significant effort to ensure compiler correctness.

![](./images/15007906.png?width=698)

