# L2


Layer 2

The data link layer, or layer 2, is the second layer of the seven-layer
OSI model of computer networking. This layer is the protocol layer that
transfers data between adjacent network nodes in a wide area network
(WAN) or between nodes on the same local area network (LAN) segment. The
data link layer provides the functional and procedural means to transfer
data between network entities and might provide the means to detect and
possibly correct errors that may occur in the physical layer.

The data link layer is concerned with local delivery of frames between
nodes on the same level of the network. Data-link frames, as these
protocol data units are called, do not cross the boundaries of a local
network. Inter-network routing and global addressing are higher-layer
functions, allowing data-link protocols to focus on local delivery,
addressing, and media arbitration. This way, the data link layer is
analogous to a neighborhood traffic cop; it endeavors to arbitrate
between parties contending for access to a medium, without concern for
their ultimate destination. When devices attempt to use a medium
simultaneously, frame collisions occur. Data-link protocols specify how
devices detect and recover from such collisions, and may provide
mechanisms to reduce or prevent them.

Examples of data link protocols are Ethernet for local area networks
(multi-node), the Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP), HDLC and ADCCP for
point-to-point (dual-node) connections. In the Internet Protocol Suite
(TCP/IP), the data link layer functionality is contained within the link
layer, the lowest layer of the descriptive model.\
![](./images/15008464.png?width=480)

