# lisp


Lisp (historically, LISP) is a family of computer programming languages
with a long history and a distinctive, fully parenthesized prefix
notation. Originally specified in 1958, Lisp is the second-oldest
high-level programming language in widespread use today. Only Fortran is
older, by one year. Lisp has changed since its early days, and many
dialects have existed over its history. Today, the best known
general-purpose Lisp dialects are Common Lisp and Scheme.

Lisp was originally created as a practical mathematical
notation for computer programs, influenced by the notation of Alonzo
Church's lambda calculus. It quickly became the favored programming
language for artificial intelligence (AI) research. As one of the
earliest programming languages, Lisp pioneered many ideas in computer
science, including tree data structures, automatic storage management,
dynamic typing, conditionals, higher-order functions, recursion, the
self-hosting compiler, and the read--eval--print loop.

The name LISP derives from "LISt Processor". Linked lists are one of
Lisp's major data structures, and Lisp source code is made of lists.
Thus, Lisp programs can manipulate source code as a data structure,
giving rise to the macro systems that allow programmers to
create new syntax or new domain-specific languages embedded in Lisp.

The interchangeability of code and data gives Lisp its instantly
recognizable syntax. All program code is written as s-expressions, or
parenthesized lists. A function call or syntactic form is written as a
list with the function or operator's name first, and the arguments
following; for instance, a function f that takes three arguments would
be called as (f arg1 arg2 arg3).

