# VC


Virtual Circuit

A virtual circuit (VC) is a means of transporting data over a packet
switched computer network in such a way that it appears as though there
is a dedicated physical layer link between the source and destination
end systems of this data. The term virtual circuit is synonymous with
virtual connection and virtual channel. Before a connection or virtual
circuit may be used, it has to be established, between two or more nodes
or software applications, by configuring the relevant parts of the
interconnecting network. After that, a bit stream or byte stream may be
delivered between the nodes; hence, a virtual circuit protocol allows
higher level protocols to avoid dealing with the division of data into
segments, packets, or frames.

Virtual circuit communication resembles circuit switching, since both
are connection oriented, meaning that in both cases data is delivered in
correct order, and signalling overhead is required during a connection
establishment phase. However, circuit switching provides a constant bit
rate and latency, while these may vary in a virtual circuit service due
to factors such as:

- varying packet queue lengths in the network nodes,

- varying bit rate generated by the application,

- varying load from other users sharing the same network resources by
    means of statistical multiplexing, etc.

    Many virtual circuit protocols, but not all, provide reliable
    communication service through the use of data retransmissions
    because of error detection and automatic repeat request (ARQ).

    An alternate network configuration to virtual circuit is datagram.

