# ESB


Enterprise Service Bus

An enterprise service bus (ESB) implements a communication system
between mutually interacting software applications in a service-oriented
architecture (SOA). It implements a software architecture as depicted in
the picture. As it implements a distributed computing architecture, it
implements a special variant of the more general client-server model,
wherein, in general, any application using ESB can behave as server or
client in turns. ESB promotes agility and flexibility with regard to
high-level protocol communication between applications. The primary goal
of the high-level protocol communication is enterprise application
integration (EAI) of heterogeneous and complex service or application
landscapes (a view from the network level).\
The concept is analogous to the bus concept found in computer hardware
architecture combined with the modular and concurrent design of
high-performance computer operating systems. The motivation for the
development of ESB was to find a standard, structured, and general
purpose concept for describing implementation of loosely coupled
software components (called services) that are expected to be
independently deployed, running, heterogeneous, and disparate within a
network. ESB is also a common implementation pattern for
service-oriented architecture.

An ESB applies the design concept of modern operating systems to
independent services running within networks of disparate and
independent computers. Like concurrent operating systems, an ESB
provides commodity services in addition to adoption, translation and
routing of client requests to appropriate answering services.

The primary duties of an ESB are:

- Route messages between services

- Monitor and control routing of message exchange between services

- Resolve contention between communicating service components

- Control deployment and versioning of services

- Marshal use of redundant services

- Provide commodity services like event handling, data transformation
    and mapping, message and event queuing and sequencing, security or
    exception handling, protocol conversion and enforcing proper quality
    of communication service

    ![](./images/15008114.png?width=142)

