# Kernel


The kernel is a computer program that is the core of a computer's
operating system, with complete control over everything in the system.
On most systems, it is one of the first programs loaded on start-up
(after the bootloader). It handles the rest of start-up as well as
input/output requests from software, translating them into
data-processing instructions for the central processing unit. It handles
memory and peripherals like keyboards, monitors, printers, and speakers.

The critical code of the kernel is usually loaded into a separate area
of memory, which is protected from access by application programs or
other, less critical parts of the operating system. The kernel performs
its tasks, such as running processes, managing hardware devices such as
the hard disk, and handling interrupts, in this protected kernel space.
In contrast, everything a user does is in user space: writing text in a
text editor, running programs in a GUI, etc. This separation prevents
user data and kernel data from interfering with each other and causing
instability and slowness, as well as preventing malfunctioning
application programs from crashing the entire operating system.

The kernel's interface is a low-level abstraction layer. When a process
makes requests of the kernel, it is called a system call. Kernel designs
differ in how they manage these system calls and resources. A monolithic
kernel runs all the operating system instructions in the same address
space for speed. A microkernel runs most processes in user
space, for modularity.\
![](./images/15008455.png?width=379)

