# Mobile Cell


Modern mobile phone networks use cells because radio frequencies are a
limited, shared resource. Cell-sites and handsets change frequency under
computer control and use low power transmitters so that the usually
limited number of radio frequencies can be simultaneously used by many
callers with less interference.

A cellular network is used by the mobile phone operator to achieve both
coverage and capacity for their subscribers. Large geographic areas are
split into smaller cells to avoid line-of-sight signal loss and to
support a large number of active phones in that area. All of the cell
sites are connected to telephone exchanges (or switches), which in turn
connect to the public telephone network.

In cities, each cell site may have a range of up to approximately 1‚ÅÑ2
mile (0.80 km), while in rural areas, the range could be as much as 5
miles (8.0 km). It is possible that in clear open areas, a user may
receive signals from a cell site 25 miles (40 km) away.

Since almost all mobile phones use cellular technology, including GSM,
CDMA, and AMPS (analog), the term "cell phone" is in some regions,
notably the US, used interchangeably with "mobile phone". However,
satellite phones are mobile phones that do not communicate directly with
a ground-based cellular tower, but may do so indirectly by way of a
satellite.

There are a number of different digital cellular technologies,
including: Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), General Packet
Radio Service (GPRS), cdmaOne, CDMA2000, Evolution-Data Optimized
(EV-DO), Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE), Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System (UMTS), Digital Enhanced Cordless
Telecommunications (DECT), Digital AMPS (IS-136/TDMA), and Integrated
Digital Enhanced Network (iDEN). The transition from existing analog to
the digital standard followed a very different path in Europe and the
US.\[11\] As a consequence, multiple digital standards surfaced in the
US, while Europe and many countries converged towards the GSM standard.

![](./images/15008605.png?width=480)

