# MP3


MP3 (formally MPEG-1 Audio Layer III or MPEG-2 Audio Layer III) is an
audio coding format for digital audio. Originally defined as the third
audio format of the MPEG-1 standard, it was retained and further
extended---defining additional bit rates and support for more audio
channels---as the third audio format of the subsequent MPEG-2 standard.
A third version, known as MPEG 2.5---extended to better support lower
bit rates---is commonly implemented, but is not a recognized standard.

MP3 (or mp3) as a file format commonly designates files containing an
elementary stream of MPEG-1 audio and video encoded data, without other
complexities of the MP3 standard.

In the aspects of MP3 pertaining to audio compression---the aspect of
the standard most apparent to end users (and for which is it best
known)---MP3 uses lossy data compression to encode data using inexact
approximations and the partial discarding of data. This allows a large
reduction in file size when compared to uncompressed audio. The
combination of small size and acceptable fidelity led to a boom in the
distribution of music over the Internet in the mid to late 1990s, as an
enabling technology when bandwidth and storage were still at a premium.
The MP3 format soon became associated with controversies surrounding
copyright infringement, music piracy, the file ripping/sharing
services [MP3.com](http://mp3.com/) and Napster, among others. With the
advent of portable media players, a product category also including
smartphones, MP3 support remains near-universal.

MP3 compression works by reducing (or approximating) the accuracy of
certain components of sound that are considered to be beyond the hearing
capabilities of most humans. This method is commonly referred to as
perceptual coding, or psychoacoustic modeling. The remaining audio
information is then recorded in a space-efficient manner. Compared to
CD-quality digital audio, MP3 compression can commonly achieve a 75 to
95% reduction in size. For example, an MP3 encoded at a constant bitrate
of 128 kbit/s would result in a file approximately 9% the size of the
original CD audio.

Also designed as a streamable format, segments of a transmission can be
lost without affecting the ability to decode later segments.

