# H

## H.248

The Gateway Control Protocol (Megaco, H.248) is an implementation of the
media gateway control protocol architecture for providing
telecommunication services across a converged internetwork consisting of
the traditional public switched telephone network (PSTN) and modern
packet networks, such as the Internet. H.248 is the designation of the
recommendations developed by the ITU Telecommunication Standardization
Sector (ITU-T) and Megaco is a contraction of media gateway control
protocol used by the earliest specifications by the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF). The standard published in March 2013 by ITU-T is
entitled H.248.1: Gateway control protocol: Version 3.

Megaco/H.248 follows the guidelines published in RFC 2805 in April 2000,
entitled Media Gateway Control Protocol Architecture and Requirements.
The protocol performs the same functions as the Media Gateway Control
Protocol (MGCP), is however a formal standard while MGCP has only
informational status. Using different syntax and symbolic
representation, the two protocols are not directly interoperable. They
are both complementary to H.323 and the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) protocols.

H.248 was the result of collaboration of the MEGACO working group of the
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and the International
Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Study Group 16. The IETF
originally published the standard as RFC 3015, which was superseded by
RFC 3525. The term Megaco is the IETF designation. Megaco combines
concepts from MGCP and the Media Device Control Protocol (MDCP). MGCP
originated from a combination of the Simple Gateway Control Protocol
(SGCP) with the Internet Protocol Device Control (IPDC).

After the ITU took responsibility of the protocol maintenance, the IETF
reclassified its publications as historic in RFC 5125. The ITU has
published three versions of H.248, the most recent in September 2005.
H.248 encompasses not only the base protocol specification in H.248.1,
but many extensions defined throughout the H.248 sub-series.

![](./images/H/15008304.png?width=480)

## H.323

H.323 is a recommendation from the ITU Telecommunication Standardization
Sector (ITU-T) that defines the protocols to provide audio-visual
communication sessions on any packet network. The H.323 standard
addresses call signaling and control, multimedia transport and control,
and bandwidth control for point-to-point and multi-point
conferences.\[1\]

It is widely implemented\[2\] by voice and videoconferencing equipment
manufacturers, is used within various Internet real-time applications
such as GnuGK and NetMeeting and is widely deployed worldwide by service
providers and enterprises for both voice and video services over IP
networks.

It is a part of the ITU-T H.32x series of protocols, which also address
multimedia communications over ISDN, the PSTN or SS7, and 3G mobile
networks.

H.323 call signaling is based on the ITU-T Recommendation Q.931 protocol
and is suited for transmitting calls across networks using a mixture of
IP, PSTN, ISDN, and QSIG over ISDN. A call model, similar to the ISDN
call model, eases the introduction of IP telephony into existing
networks of ISDN-based PBX systems, including transitions to IP-based
PBXs.

Within the context of H.323, an IP-based PBX might be a gatekeeper or
other call control element which provides service to telephones or
videophones. Such a device may provide or facilitate both basic services
and supplementary services, such as call transfer, park, pick-up, and
hold.

![](./images/H/15008312.png?width=480)

## Half Duplex

In a half-duplex system, both parties can communicate with each other,
but not simultaneously; the communication is one direction at a time. An
example of a half-duplex device is a walkie-talkie two-way radio that
has a "push-to-talk" button; when the local user wants to speak to the
remote person they push this button, which turns on the transmitter but
turns off the receiver, so they cannot hear the remote person. To listen
to the other person they release the button, which turns on the receiver
but turns off the transmitter.

## Happy Path

See *nominal path*.

## Hash Function

hash function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary
size to data of a fixed size. The values returned by a hash function are
called hash values, hash codes, digests, or simply hashes. Hash
functions are often used in combination with a hash table, a common data
structure used in computer software for rapid data lookup. Hash
functions accelerate table or database lookup by detecting duplicated
records in a large file. One such application is finding similar
stretches in DNA sequences. They are also useful in cryptography. A
cryptographic hash function allows one to easily verify that some input
data maps to a given hash value, but if the input data is unknown, it is
deliberately difficult to reconstruct it (or any equivalent
alternatives) by knowing the stored hash value. This is
used for assuring integrity of transmitted data, and is the building
block for HMACs, which provide message authentication.

Hash functions are related to (and often confused with) checksums, check
digits, fingerprints, lossy compression, randomization functions,
error-correcting codes, and ciphers. Although the concepts overlap to
some extent, each one has its own uses and requirements and is designed
and optimized differently. The HashKeeper database maintained by the
American National Drug Intelligence Center, for instance, is more aptly
described as a catalogue of file fingerprints than of hash values.\
![](./images/H/15008318.png?width=300)

## HDF

Handover Distribution Frame

Used to terminate the cable from the exchange and to make the pairs
available to the operator.\
![](./images/H/15008324.png?width=469)

## HDLC

High-Level Datalink Control

High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC) is a bit-oriented code-transparent
synchronous data link layer protocol developed by the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO). The original ISO standards for
HDLC are as follows:

ISO 3309-1979 -- Frame Structure\
ISO 4335-1979 -- Elements of Procedure\
ISO 6159-1980 -- Unbalanced Classes of Procedure\
ISO 6256-1981 -- Balanced Classes of Procedure\
The current standard for HDLC is ISO/IEC 13239:2002, which replaces all
of those standards.

HDLC provides both connection-oriented and connectionless service.

HDLC can be used for point-to-multipoint connections via the original
master-slave modes Normal Response Mode (NRM) and Asynchronous Response
Mode (ARM), but they are now rarely used; is now used almost exclusively
to connect one device to another, using Asynchronous Balanced Mode
(ABM).

![](./images/H/15008330.png?width=480)

## HDSL

High Speed Digital Subscriber Line (also known as High-speed Digital
Subscriber Loop)

A copper delivered service on Copper Wideband Serving Section (CWSS). It
is subject to reach limitations and is used primarily to provide 2 Mbit
service to singleton sites.

## Heartbeat Retrospective

The team meets regularly to reflect on the most significant events that
occurred since the previous such meeting, and identify opportunities for
improvement.

## HiFi Prototype

See *high fidelity prototype.*

## High Fidelity Prototype

Mockup of a system using a software or technology based tool, usually
one with a *RAD environment*, e.g., Visual Basic or Delphi.

## High Level Design

HLD

Design level between *architecture* and *low level design*. Focuses
defining the details of the software solution at levels abstracted from
their construction. See *CxStand\_Design* for more information.

## HLR

Home Location Register

The home location register (HLR) is a central database that contains
details of each mobile phone subscriber that is authorized to use the
GSM core network. There can be several logical, and physical, HLRs per
public land mobile network (PLMN), though one international mobile
subscriber identity (IMSI)/MSISDN pair can be associated with only one
logical HLR (which can span several physical nodes) at a time.

The HLRs store details of every SIM card issued by the mobile phone
operator. Each SIM has a unique identifier called an IMSI which is the
primary key to each HLR record.

Another important item of data associated with the SIM are the MSISDNs,
which are the telephone numbers used by mobile phones to make and
receive calls. The primary MSISDN is the number used for making and
receiving voice calls and SMS, but it is possible for a SIM to have
other secondary MSISDNs associated with it for fax and data calls. Each
MSISDN is also a primary key to the HLR record. The HLR data is stored
for as long as a subscriber remains with the mobile phone operator.

Examples of other data stored in the HLR against an IMSI record is:

- GSM services that the subscriber has requested or been given.

- General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) settings to allow the subscriber
    to access packet services.

- Current location of subscriber (VLR and serving GPRS support
    node/SGSN).

- Call divert settings applicable for each associated MSISDN.

    The HLR is a system which directly receives and processes MAP
    transactions and messages from elements in the GSM network, for
    example, the location update messages received as mobile phones roam
    around.

## Hotfix

code (sometimes called a patch) that fixes a bug in a product.

## How Requirement

Often a synonym for *non-functional requirement*. Sometimes used to
refer to design issues.

## How Well Requirement

Synonym for *non-functional requirement*.

## HSRP

Hot Standby Router Protocol

In computer networking, the Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP) is a
Cisco proprietary redundancy protocol for establishing a fault-tolerant
default gateway. Version 1 of the protocol was described in RFC 2281 in
1998. There is no RFC for version 2 of the protocol.

The protocol establishes an association between gateways in order to
achieve default gateway failover if the primary gateway becomes
inaccessible. HSRP gateways send multicast hello messages to other
gateways to notify them of their priorities (which gateway is preferred)
and current status (active or standby).\
![](./images/H/15008336.png?width=298)

## HSS

Home subscriber server

The home subscriber server (HSS), or user profile server function
(UPSF), is a master user database that supports the IMS network entities
that actually handle calls. It contains the subscription-related
information (subscriber profiles), performs authentication and
authorization of the user, and can provide information about the
subscriber's location and IP information. It is similar to the GSM home
location register (HLR) and Authentication centre (AuC).\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/plugins/servlet/confluence/placeholder/unknown-attachment "worddavdbd23573d6dff5163d9993faa7fb6ca5.png")\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/plugins/servlet/confluence/placeholder/unknown-attachment "worddave29b71bb267aef894ab1e2f80badf6d9.png")

## HTTP

Hypertext Transfer Protocol

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application protocol for
distributed, collaborative, and hypermedia information systems.\[1\]
HTTP is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web.

Hypertext is structured text that uses logical links (hyperlinks)
between nodes containing text. HTTP is the protocol to exchange or
transfer hypertext.

Development of HTTP was initiated by Tim Berners-Lee at CERN in 1989.
Standards development of HTTP was coordinated by the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF) and the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C),
culminating in the publication of a series of Requests for Comments
(RFCs). The first definition of HTTP/1.1, the version of HTTP in common
use, occurred in RFC 2068 in 1997, although this was made obsolete by
RFC 2616 in 1999 and then again by the RFC 7230 family of RFCs in 2014.

A later version, the successor HTTP/2, was standardized in 2015, and is
now supported by major web servers and browsers over TLS using ALPN
extension where TLS 1.2 or newer is required

Example session\
Below is a sample conversation between an HTTP client and an HTTP server
running on [www.example.com](http://www.example.com/), port 80. As
mentioned in the previous sections, all the data is sent in a plain-text
(ASCII) encoding, using a two-byte CR LF ('`\r\n`{=tex}') line ending at
the end of each line.

Client request\
GET /index.html HTTP/1.1\
Host: [www.example.com](http://www.example.com/)

Server response\
HTTP/1.1 200 OK\
Date: Mon, 23 May 2005 22:38:34 GMT\
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8\
Content-Length: 138\
Last-Modified: Wed, 08 Jan 2003 23:11:55 GMT\
Server: Apache/1.3.3.7 (Unix) (Red-Hat/Linux)\
ETag: "3f80f-1b6-3e1cb03b"\
Accept-Ranges: bytes\
Connection: close

```{=html}
<html>
```

\

```{=html}
<head>
```

\

```{=html}
<title>
```

An Example Page

```{=html}
</title>
```

\

```{=html}
</head>
```

\

```{=html}
<body>
```

\
Hello World, this is a very simple HTML document.\

```{=html}
</body>
```

\

```{=html}
</html>
```

## HTTPS

HTTP Secure (HTTPS) is an extension of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol
(HTTP) for secure communication over a computer network, and is widely
used on the Internet. In HTTPS, the communication protocol is encrypted
using Transport Layer Security (TLS), or formerly, its predecessor,
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). The protocol is therefore also often
referred to as HTTP over TLS, or HTTP over SSL.

The principal motivation for HTTPS is authentication of the accessed
website and protection of the privacy and integrity of the exchanged
data while in transit. It protects against man-in-the-middle attacks.
The bidirectional encryption of communications between a client and
server protects against eavesdropping and tampering of the
communication. In practice, this provides a reasonable assurance that
one is communicating without interference by attackers with the website
that one intended to communicate with, as opposed to an impostor.

Historically, HTTPS connections were primarily used for payment
transactions on the World Wide Web, e-mail and for sensitive
transactions in corporate information systems. Since 2018, HTTPS is used
more often by webusers than the original non-secure HTTP, primarily to
protect page authenticity on all types of websites; secure accounts; and
keep user communications, identity, and web browsing private.

## Hub

An Ethernet hub, active hub, network hub, repeater hub, multiport
repeater, or simply hub is a network hardware device for connecting
multiple Ethernet devices together and making them act as a single
network segment. It has multiple input/output (I/O) ports, in which a
signal introduced at the input of any port appears at the output of
every port except the original incoming. A hub works at the physical
layer (layer 1) of the OSI model. A repeater hub also participates in
collision detection, forwarding a jam signal to all ports if it detects
a collision. In addition to standard 8P8C ("RJ45") ports, some hubs may
also come with a BNC or an Attachment Unit Interface (AUI) connector to
allow connection to legacy 10BASE2 or 10BASE5 network segments.

Hubs are now largely obsolete, having been replaced by network switches
except in very old installations or specialized applications. As of
2011, connecting network segments by repeaters or hubs is deprecated by
IEEE 802.3.

![](./images/H/15008342.png?width=355)

## human factors

the study of how humans behave physically and psychologically in
relation to particular environments, products, or services.

## Hungarian notation

Hungarian notation is an identifier naming convention in computer
programming, in which the name of a variable or function indicates its
intention or kind, and in some dialects its type. The original Hungarian
Notation uses intention or kind in its naming convention and is
sometimes called Apps Hungarian as it became popular in the Microsoft
Apps division in the development of Word, Excel and other apps. As the
Microsoft Windows division adopted the naming convention, they used the
actual data type for naming, and this convention became widely spread
through the Windows API; this is sometimes called Systems Hungarian
notation.

- bBusy : boolean

- chInitial : char

- cApples : count of items

- dwLightYears : double word (Systems)

- fBusy : flag (or float)

- nSize : integer (Systems) or count (Apps)

- iSize : integer (Systems) or index (Apps)

- fpPrice: floating-point

- dbPi : double (Systems)

- pFoo : pointer

- rgStudents : array, or range

- szLastName : zero-terminated string

- u16Identifier : unsigned 16-bit integer (Systems)

- u32Identifier : unsigned 32-bit integer (Systems)

- stTime : clock time structure

- fnFunction : function name
