# FIPS 140-2


The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 140-2,
(FIPS PUB 140-2), is a U.S. government computer security standard used
to approve cryptographic modules. The title is Security
Requirements for Cryptographic Modules. Initial publication was on May
25, 2001 and was last updated December 3, 2002

Purpose\
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) issued the
FIPS 140 Publication Series to coordinate the requirements and
standards for cryptography modules that include both hardware and
software components. Protection of a cryptographic module within a
security system is necessary to maintain the confidentiality and
integrity of the information protected by the module. This standard
specifies the security requirements that will be satisfied by a
cryptographic module. The standard provides four increasing, qualitative
levels of security intended to cover a wide range of potential
applications and environments. The security requirements cover areas
related to the secure design and implementation of a cryptographic
module. These areas include cryptographic module specification;
cryptographic module ports and interfaces; roles, services, and
authentication; finite state model; physical security; operational
environment; cryptographic key management; electromagnetic
interference/electromagnetic compatibility (EMI/EMC); self-tests; design
assurance; and mitigation of other attacks.

Federal agencies and departments can validate that the module in use is
covered by an existing FIPS 140-1 or FIPS 140-2 certificate that
specifies the exact module name, hardware, software, firmware, and/or
applet version numbers. The cryptographic modules are produced by
the private sector or open source communities for use by the U.S.
government and other regulated industries (such as financial and
health-care institutions) that collect, store, transfer, share and
disseminate sensitive but unclassified (SBU) information. A commercial
cryptographic module is also commonly referred to as a hardware security
module (HSM).

Security levels\
FIPS 140-2 defines four levels of security, simply named "Level 1" to
"Level 4". It does not specify in detail what level of security is
required by any particular application.

Level 1\
Security Level 1 provides the lowest level of security. Basic security
requirements are specified for a cryptographic module (e.g., at least
one Approved algorithm or Approved security function shall be used). No
specific physical security mechanisms are required in a Security Level 1
cryptographic module beyond the basic requirement for production-grade
components. An example of a Security Level 1 cryptographic module is a
personal computer (PC) encryption board.

Level 2\
Security Level 2 improves upon the physical security mechanisms of a
Security Level 1 cryptographic module by requiring features that show
evidence of tampering, including tamper-evident coatings or seals that
must be broken to attain physical access to the plaintext cryptographic
keys and critical security parameters (CSPs) within the module, or
pick-resistant locks on covers or doors to protect against unauthorized
physical access.

Level 3\
In addition to the tamper-evident physical security mechanisms required
at Security Level 2, Security Level 3 attempts to prevent the intruder
from gaining access to CSPs held within the cryptographic module.
Physical security mechanisms required at Security Level 3 are intended
to have a high probability of detecting and responding to attempts at
physical access, use or modification of the cryptographic module. The
physical security mechanisms may include the use of strong enclosures
and tamper-detection/response circuitry that zeroes all plaintext CSPs
when the removable covers/doors of the cryptographic module are opened.

Level 4\
Security Level 4 provides the highest level of security. At this
security level, the physical security mechanisms provide a complete
envelope of protection around the cryptographic module with the intent
of detecting and responding to all unauthorized attempts at physical
access. Penetration of the cryptographic module enclosure from any
direction has a very high probability of being detected, resulting in
the immediate deletion of all plaintext CSPs.

Security Level 4 cryptographic modules are useful for operation in
physically unprotected environments. Security Level 4 also protects a
cryptographic module against a security compromise due to environmental
conditions or fluctuations outside of the module's normal operating
ranges for voltage and temperature. Intentional excursions beyond the
normal operating ranges may be used by an attacker to thwart a
cryptographic module's defenses. A cryptographic module is required to
either include special environmental protection features designed to
detect fluctuations and delete CSPs, or to undergo rigorous
environmental failure testing to provide a reasonable assurance that the
module will not be affected by fluctuations outside of the normal
operating range in a manner that can compromise the security of the
module.

