# EEE 802.1Qay


Provider Backbone Bridge Traffic Engineering (PBB-TE) is an approved
telecommunications networking standard, IEEE 802.1Qay-2009. PBB-TE
adapts Ethernet technology to carrier class transport networks. It is
based on the layered VLAN tags and MAC-in-MAC encapsulation defined in
IEEE 802.1ah (Provider Backbone Bridges (PBB)), but it differs from PBB
in eliminating flooding, dynamically created forwarding tables, and
spanning tree protocols. Compared to PBB and its predecessors, PBB-TE
behaves more predictably and its behavior can be more easily controlled
by the network operator, at the expense of requiring up-front connection
configuration at each bridge along a forwarding path. PBB-TE Operations,
Administration, and Management (OAM) is usually based on IEEE 802.1ag.
It was initially based on Nortel's Provider Backbone Transport (PBT).

PBB-TE's connection-oriented features and behaviors, as well as its OAM
approach, are inspired by SDH/SONET. PBB-TE can also provide path
protection levels similar to the UPSR (Unidirectional Path Switched
Ring) protection in SDH/SONET networks.

Principle of operation\
The IEEE 802.1Qay PBB-TE standard extends the functionality of IEEE
802.1ah Provider Backbone Bridges, adding a connection-oriented mode
using point-to-point trunks that deliver resiliency and configurable
performance levels.

A service is identified by an I-SID (Backbone Service Instance
Identifier) and each service is associated with a PBB-TE trunk. Each
PBB-TE trunk is identified by a triplet of B-SA, B-DA and B-VID. The
B-SA and B-DA identify the source and destination bridges, respectively,
that are the endpoints of the trunk. The B-VID is a backbone VLAN
identifier that is used to distinguish different trunks to the same
destination. The management system configures the PBB-TE trunks on all
the edge and core bridges by creating static forwarding database
entries; the management system is responsible for ensuring that there
are no forwarding loops.

The backbone edge bridges map frames to and from an I-SID and perform
the MAC header encapsulation and decapsulation functions. The core
bridges act as transit nodes. The packets are forwarded based on outer
VLAN ID (B-VID) and Destination MAC address (B-DA).

Forwarding is based on the static forwarding database (FDB) entries;
dynamic MAC learning is not used. Any incoming broadcast or multicast
frames are either dropped or encapsulated as unicast within the trunk.
All Destination Lookup Failure packets are dropped rather than flooded.
By eliminating any broadcasting or flooding, and by using only the
loop-free forwarding paths configured by management, there is no longer
any need to use a spanning tree protocol.

Path protection is provided by configuring one work and one protect
B-VID for each backbone service instance. In case of work path failure
(as indicated by loss of 802.1ag continuity check messages, CCMs) the
source bridge swaps the B-VID value to redirect the traffic onto the
preconfigured protection path within 50 ms.

PBB-TE equipment leverages economies of scale inherent in Ethernet,
promising solutions that are 30% to 40% cheaper than T-MPLS networks
with identical features and capabilities, giving PBB-TE a better overall
return on investment.

