# H.323


H.323 is a recommendation from the ITU Telecommunication Standardization
Sector (ITU-T) that defines the protocols to provide audio-visual
communication sessions on any packet network. The H.323 standard
addresses call signaling and control, multimedia transport and control,
and bandwidth control for point-to-point and multi-point
conferences.\[1\]

It is widely implemented\[2\] by voice and videoconferencing equipment
manufacturers, is used within various Internet real-time applications
such as GnuGK and NetMeeting and is widely deployed worldwide by service
providers and enterprises for both voice and video services over IP
networks.

It is a part of the ITU-T H.32x series of protocols, which also address
multimedia communications over ISDN, the PSTN or SS7, and 3G mobile
networks.

H.323 call signaling is based on the ITU-T Recommendation Q.931 protocol
and is suited for transmitting calls across networks using a mixture of
IP, PSTN, ISDN, and QSIG over ISDN. A call model, similar to the ISDN
call model, eases the introduction of IP telephony into existing
networks of ISDN-based PBX systems, including transitions to IP-based
PBXs.

Within the context of H.323, an IP-based PBX might be a gatekeeper or
other call control element which provides service to telephones or
videophones. Such a device may provide or facilitate both basic services
and supplementary services, such as call transfer, park, pick-up, and
hold.

![](./images/15008312.png?width=480)

