# Camel Case


Camel case (stylized as camelCase or CamelCase; also known as camel caps
or more formally as medial capitals) is the practice of writing compound
words or phrases such that each word or abbreviation in the middle of
the phrase begins with a capital letter, with no intervening spaces or
punctuation. Common examples include "iPhone", "eBay", "FedEx",
"DreamWorks", and "HarperCollins". It is also sometimes used in online
usernames such as "JohnSmith", and to make multi-word domain names more
legible, for example in advertisements.

Programming and coding\
The use of medial caps for compound identifiers is recommended by the
coding style guidelines of many organizations or software
projects. For some languages (such as Mesa, Pascal, Modula, Java and
Microsoft's .NET) this practice is recommended by the language
developers or by authoritative manuals and has therefore become part of
the language's "culture".

Style guidelines often distinguish between upper and lower camel case,
typically specifying which variety should be used for specific kinds of
entities: variables, record fields, methods, procedures, types, etc.
These rules are sometimes supported by static analysis tools that check
source code for adherence.

The original Hungarian notation for programming, for example, specifies
that a lowercase abbreviation for the "usage type" (not data type)
should prefix all variable names, with the remainder of the name in
upper camel case; as such it is a form of lower camel case.

Programming identifiers often need to contain acronyms and initialisms
that are already in uppercase, such as "old HTML file". By analogy with
the title case rules, the natural camel case rendering would have the
abbreviation all in uppercase, namely "oldHTMLFile". However, this
approach is problematic when two acronyms occur together (e.g., "parse
DBM XML" would become "parseDBMXML") or when the standard mandates lower
camel case but the name begins with an abbreviation (e.g. "SQL server"
would become "sQLServer"). For this reason, some programmers prefer to
treat abbreviations as if they were lowercase words and write
"oldHtmlFile", "parseDbmXml" or "sqlServer". However, this can make it
harder to recognise that a given word is intended as an acronym.

