# Copyleft


Copyleft (a play on the word copyright) is the practice of offering
people the right to freely distribute copies and modified versions of a
work with the stipulation that the same rights be preserved in
derivative works down the line. Copyleft software licenses are
considered protective or reciprocal, as contrasted with permissive free
software licenses.

Copyleft is a form of licensing, and can be used to maintain copyright
conditions for works ranging from computer software, to documents, to
art, to scientific discoveries and instruments in medicine. In general,
copyright law is used by an author to prohibit recipients from
reproducing, adapting, or distributing copies of their work. In
contrast, under copyleft, an author must give every person who receives
a copy of the work permission to reproduce, adapt, or distribute it,
with the accompanying requirement that any resulting copies or
adaptations are also bound by the same licensing agreement.

Copyleft licenses for software require that information necessary for
reproducing and modifying the work must be made available to recipients
of the binaries. The source code files will usually contain a copy of
the license terms and acknowledge the authors.

Copyleft type licenses are a novel use of existing copyright law to
ensure a work remains freely available. The GNU General Public License
(GPL), originally written by Richard Stallman, was the first software
copyleft license to see extensive use, and continues to dominate in that
area. Creative Commons, a non-profit organization founded by Lawrence
Lessig, provides a similar license provision condition called
share-alike.

![](./images/15007924.png?width=79)

