# XMPP


Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocols

Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) is a communication
protocol for message-oriented middleware based on XML (Extensible Markup
Language). It enables the near-real-time exchange of structured yet
extensible data between any two or more network entities. Originally
named Jabber, the protocol was developed by the Jabber open-source
community in 1999 for near real-time instant messaging (IM), presence
information, and contact list maintenance. Designed to be extensible,
the protocol has been used also for publish-subscribe systems,
signalling for VoIP, video, file transfer, gaming, the Internet of
Things (IoT) applications such as the smart grid, and social networking
services.

Unlike most instant messaging protocols, XMPP is defined in an open
standard and uses an open systems approach of development and
application, by which anyone may implement an XMPP service and
interoperate with other organizations' implementations. Because XMPP is
an open protocol, implementations can be developed using any software
license and many server, client, and library implementations are
distributed as free and open-source software, numerous freeware and
commercial software implementations also exist.

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) formed an XMPP working group
in 2002 to formalize the core protocols as an IETF instant messaging and
presence technology. The XMPP Working group produced four specifications
(RFC 3920, RFC 3921, RFC 3922, RFC 3923), which were approved as
Proposed Standards in 2004. In 2011, RFC 3920 and RFC 3921 were
superseded by RFC 6120 and RFC 6121 respectively, with RFC 6122
specifying the XMPP address format. In 2015, RFC 6122 was superseded by
RFC 7622. In addition to these core protocols standardized at the IETF,
the XMPP Standards Foundation (formerly the Jabber Software Foundation)
is active in developing open XMPP extensions.

