# SDMA


Space-division multiple access

Space-division multiple access (SDMA) is a channel access method based
on creating parallel spatial pipes\[clarification needed\] next to
higher capacity pipes through spatial multiplexing and/or diversity, by
which it is able to offer superior performance in radio multiple access
communication systems.\[clarification needed\] In traditional mobile
cellular network systems, the base station has no information on the
position of the mobile units within the cell and radiates the signal in
all directions within the cell in order to provide radio coverage. This
results in wasting power on transmissions when there are no mobile units
to reach, in addition to causing interference for adjacent cells using
the same frequency, so called co-channel cells. Likewise, in reception,
the antenna receives signals coming from all directions including noise
and interference signals. By using smart antenna technology and
differing spatial locations of mobile units within the cell,
space-division multiple access techniques offer attractive performance
enhancements. The radiation pattern of the base station, both in
transmission and reception, is adapted to each user to obtain highest
gain in the direction of that user. This is often done using phased
array techniques.

In GSM cellular networks, the base station is aware of the distance (but
not direction) of a mobile phone by use of a technique called "timing
advance" (TA). The base transceiver station (BTS) can determine how far
the mobile station (MS) is by interpreting the reported TA. This
information, along with other parameters, can then be used to power down
the BTS or MS, if a power control feature is implemented in the network.
The power control in either BTS or MS is implemented in most modern
networks, especially on the MS, as this ensures a better battery life
for the MS. This is also why having a BTS close to the user results in
less exposure to electromagnetic radiation.

