# SIM


Subscriber Identity Module

A subscriber identity module or subscriber identification module (SIM),
widely known as a SIM card, is an integrated circuit that is intended to
securely store the international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI)
number and its related key, which are used to identify and authenticate
subscribers on mobile telephony devices (such as mobile phones and
computers). It is also possible to store contact information on many SIM
cards. SIM cards are always used on GSM phones; for CDMA phones, they
are only needed for newer LTE-capable handsets. SIM cards can also be
used in satellite phones, smart watches, computers, or cameras.

The SIM circuit is part of the function of a universal integrated
circuit card (UICC) physical smart card, which is usually made of PVC
with embedded contacts and semiconductors. SIM cards are transferable
between different mobile devices. The first UICC smart cards were the
size of credit and bank cards; sizes were reduced several times over the
years, usually keeping electrical contacts the same, so that a larger
card could be cut down to a smaller size.

A SIM card contains its unique serial number (ICCID), international
mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) number, security authentication and
ciphering information, temporary information related to the local
network, a list of the services the user has access to, and two
passwords: a personal identification number (PIN) for ordinary use, and
a personal unblocking code (PUC) for PIN unlocking.

SIM cards have been made smaller over the years; functionality is
independent of format. Full-size SIM were followed by mini-SIM,
micro-SIM, and nano-SIM. SIM cards are also made to embed in devices.

![](./images/15008960.png?width=480)

![](./images/15008966.png?width=480)

