# IPv6


Internet Protocol version 4

Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) is the most recent version of the
Internet Protocol (IP), the communications protocol that provides an
identification and location system for computers on networks and routes
traffic across the Internet. IPv6 was developed by the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF) to deal with the long-anticipated problem
of IPv4 address exhaustion. IPv6 is intended to replace IPv4. IPv6
became a Draft Standard in December 1998, and became an Internet
Standard on 14 July 2017.

Every device on the Internet is assigned a unique IP address for
identification and location definition. With the rapid growth of the
Internet after commercialization in the 1990s, it became evident that
far more addresses would be needed to connect devices than the IPv4
address space had available. By 1998, the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF) had formalized the successor protocol. IPv6 uses a 128-bit
address, theoretically allowing 2128, or approximately 3.4×1038
addresses. The actual number is slightly smaller, as multiple ranges are
reserved for special use or completely excluded from use. The total
number of possible IPv6 addresses is more than 7.9×1028 times as many as
IPv4, which uses 32-bit addresses and provides approximately 4.3 billion
addresses. The two protocols are not designed to be interoperable,
complicating the transition to IPv6. However, several IPv6 transition
mechanisms have been devised to permit communication between IPv4 and
IPv6 hosts.

IPv6 provides other technical benefits in addition to a larger
addressing space. In particular, it permits hierarchical address
allocation methods that facilitate route aggregation across the
Internet, and thus limit the expansion of routing tables. The use of
multicast addressing is expanded and simplified, and provides additional
optimization for the delivery of services. Device mobility, security,
and configuration aspects have been considered in the design of the
protocol.

IPv6 addresses are represented as eight groups of four hexadecimal
digits with the groups being separated by colons, for example
2001:0db8:0000:0042:0000:8a2e:0370:7334, but methods to abbreviate this
full notation exist.\
![](./images/15008396.png?width=380)

![](./images/15008402.png?width=480)

