# IMSI


International Mobile Subscriber Identity

The International Mobile Subscriber Identity or IMSI is used to identify
the user of a cellular network and is a unique identification associated
with all cellular networks. It is stored as a 64 bit field and is sent
by the phone to the network. It is also used for acquiring other details
of the mobile in the home location register (HLR) or as locally copied
in the visitor location register. To prevent eavesdroppers identifying
and tracking the subscriber on the radio interface, the IMSI is sent as
rarely as possible and a randomly generated TMSI is sent instead.

The IMSI is used in any mobile network that interconnects with other
networks. For GSM, UMTS and LTE networks, this number was provisioned in
the SIM card and for cdmaOne and CDMA2000 networks, in the phone
directly or in the R-UIM card (the CDMA equivalent of the SIM card).
Both cards have been superseded by the UICC.

An IMSI is usually presented as a 15 digit number but can be shorter.
For example, MTN South Africa's old IMSIs that are still being used in
the market are shown as 14 digits. The first 3 digits are the mobile
country code (MCC), which are followed by the mobile network code (MNC),
either 2 digits (European standard) or 3 digits (North American
standard). The length of the MNC depends on the value of the MCC, and it
is recommended that the length is uniform within a MCC area. The
remaining digits are the mobile subscription identification number
(MSIN) within the network's customer base (mostly 10 or 9 digits
depending on the MNC length).

The IMSI conforms to the ITU E.212 numbering standard.

