# Machine code


Machine code is a computer program written in machine language
instructions that can be executed directly by a computer's central
processing unit (CPU). Each instruction causes the CPU to perform a very
specific task, such as a load, a jump, or an ALU operation on a unit of
data in a CPU register or memory.

Machine code is a strictly numerical language which is intended to run
as fast as possible, and may be regarded as the lowest-level
representation of a compiled or assembled computer program or as a
primitive and hardware-dependent programming language. While it is
possible to write programs directly in machine code, it is tedious and
error prone to manage individual bits and calculate numerical addresses
and constants manually. For this reason, programs are very rarely
written directly in machine code in modern contexts, but may be done for
low level debugging, program patching, and assembly language
disassembly.

The overwhelming majority of practical programs today are written in
higher-level languages or assembly language. The source code is then
translated to executable machine code by utilities such as compilers,
assemblers, and linkers, with the important exception of interpreted
programs, which are not translated into machine code. However, the
interpreter itself, which may be seen as an executor or processor,
performing the instructions of the source code, typically consists of
directly executable machine code (generated from assembly or high-level
language source code).

Machine code is by definition the lowest level of programming detail
visible to the programmer, but internally many processors use microcode
or optimise and transform machine code instructions into sequences of
micro-ops, this is not generally considered to be a machine code per se

