# Backhaul


In a hierarchical telecommunications network the backhaul portion of the
network comprises the intermediate links between the core network, or
backbone network, and the small subnetworks at the "edge" of the entire
hierarchical network.

In contracts pertaining to such networks, backhaul is the obligation to
carry packets to and from that global network. A non-technical business
definition of backhaul is the commercial wholesale bandwidth provider
who offers quality of service (QOS) guarantees to the retailer. It
appears most often in telecommunications trade literature in this sense,
whereby the backhaul connection is defined not technically but by who
operates and manages it, and who takes legal responsibility for the
connection or uptime to the Internet or 3G/4G network. See also hotspot
contracts below.

In both the technical and commercial definitions, backhaul generally
refers to the side of the network that communicates with the global
Internet, paid for at wholesale commercial access rates to or at an
Ethernet Exchange or other core network access location. Sometimes
middle mile networks exist between the customer's own LAN and those
exchanges. This can be a local WAN or WLAN connection, for instance
Network New Hampshire Now and Maine Fiber Company run tariffed public
dark fiber networks as a backhaul alternative to encourage local and
national carriers to reach areas with broadband and cell phone that they
otherwise would not be serving. These serve retail networks which in
turn connect buildings and bill customers directly.

