# BYOD


Bring your own device

Bring your own device (BYOD)---also called bring your own technology
(BYOT), bring your own phone (BYOP), and bring your own personal
computer (BYOPC)---refers to the policy of permitting employees to bring
personally owned devices (laptops, tablets, and smart phones) to their
workplace, and to use those devices to access privileged company
information and applications. The phenomenon is commonly referred to as
IT consumerization.

BYOD is making significant inroads in the business world, with about 75%
of employees in high growth markets such as Brazil and Russia and 44% in
developed markets already using their own technology at work. Surveys
have indicated that businesses are unable to stop employees from
bringing personal devices into the workplace. Research is divided on
benefits. One survey shows around 95% of employees stating they use at
least one personal device for work. a food manufacturer employing an
accountancy firm to audit their finances).\
A business re-sells goods and services produced by others (e.g.Â a
retailer buying the end product from the food manufacturer).\
B2B is often contrasted with business-to-consumer (B2C). In B2B
commerce, it is often the case that the parties to the relationship have
comparable negotiating power, and even when they do not, each party
typically involves professional staff and legal counsel in the
negotiation of terms, whereas B2C is shaped to a far greater degree by
economic implications of information asymmetry. However, within a B2B
context, large companies may have many commercial, resource and
information advantages over smaller businesses.