# Softswitch


A softswitch (software switch) is a central device in a
telecommunications network which connects telephone calls from one phone
line to another, across a telecommunication network or the public
Internet, entirely by means of software running on a general-purpose
computer system. Most landline calls are routed by purpose-built
electronic hardware; however, soft switches using general purpose
servers and VoIP technology are becoming more popular.\[1\]

Many telecommunications networks now make use of combinations of
softswitches and more traditional purpose-built hardware.

Although the term softswitch technically refers to any such device, it
is more conventionally applied to a device that handles IP-to-IP phone
calls, while the phrase "access server" or "media gateway" is used to
refer to devices that either originate or terminate traditional "land
line" (hard wired) phone calls. In practice, such devices can often do
both. As a practical distinction, a Skype-to-Skype phone call is
entirely IP (internet) based, and so uses a softswitch somewhere in the
middle connecting the calling party with the called party. In contrast,
access servers might take a mobile call or a call originating from a
traditional phone line, convert it to IP traffic, then send it over the
internet to another such device, which terminates the call by reversing
the process and converting the Voice over IP call back to older circuit
switched digital systems using traditional digital ISDN / PSTN protocols
that transmit voice traffic using non-IP systems.

The Call Agent takes care of functions such as billing, call routing,
signaling, call services and the like, supplying the functional logic to
accomplish these telephony meta-tasks. A call agent may control several
different media gateways in geographically dispersed areas via a TCP/IP
link. It is also used to control the functions of media gateway, in
order to connect with media as well as other interfaces. This procedure
is utilized to keep the interfaces clear as crystal for receiving calls
from any phone lines.\[2\]

The softswitch generally resides in a building owned by the telephone
company called a telephone exchange (UK/IRL/AUS/NZ) or central office
(US/CAN). The central office or telephone exchange has high capacity
connections to carry calls to other offices owned by the
telecommunication company and to other telecommunication companies via
the PSTN.

Looking towards the end users from the switch, the softswitch may be
connected to several access devices via TCP/IP network. These access
devices can range from small and large Analog Telephone Adaptors (ATA)
which provide from one to hundreds of Telephone Pairs to an Integrated
Access Device (IAD), eMTA s (embedded Multimedia Terminal Adapters)
using MGCP/NCS protocol over cable (VoCable) or PBX which may provide
several hundred telephone connections

Note here that Analogue (ATA), PSTN telephone devices can only be
reached by a softswitch that has embedded SS7 or SIGTRAN cards, software
in terms of signalling AND Trunking Gateway for Voice traffic IP/TDM,
TDM/IP, TDM/TDM functions.

Typically the larger access devices will be located in a building owned
by the telecommunication company near to the customers they serve. Each
end user can be connected to the IAD by a simple pair of copper wires.

The medium-sized devices and PBXs are most commonly used by business
that locate them on their own premises, and single-line devices are
mostly found at private residences.

At the turn of the 21st century with IP Multimedia Subsystem (or IMS),
the Softswitch element is represented by the Media Gateway Controller
(MGC) element, and the term "Softswitch" is rarely used in the IMS
context. Rather, it is called an AGCF (Access Gateway Control Function).

