# Domain Name


A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of
administrative autonomy, authority or control within the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name
System (DNS). Any name registered in the DNS is a domain name. Domain
names are used in various networking contexts and for
application-specific naming and addressing purposes. In general, a
domain name represents an Internet Protocol (IP) resource, such as a
personal computer used to access the Internet, a server computer hosting
a web site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via
the Internet. In 2017, 330.6 million domain names had been registered.

Domain names are organized in subordinate levels (subdomains) of the DNS
root domain, which is nameless. The first-level set of domain names are
the top-level domains (TLDs), including the generic top-level domains
(gTLDs), such as the prominent domains com, info, net, edu, and org, and
the country code top-level domains (ccTLDs). Below these top-level
domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain
names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to
connect local area networks to the Internet, create other publicly
accessible Internet resources or run web sites.

The registration of these domain names is usually administered by domain
name registrars who sell their services to the public.

A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) is a domain name that is completely
specified with all labels in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no parts
omitted. Labels in the Domain Name System are case-insensitive, and may
therefore be written in any desired capitalization method, but most
commonly domain names are written in lowercase in technical contexts.\
![](./images/15008007.png?width=350)

Domain name space\
Today, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN)
manages the top-level development and architecture of the Internet
domain name space. It authorizes domain name registrars, through which
domain names may be registered and reassigned.

The hierarchical domain name system, organized into zones, each served
by domain name servers.\
The domain name space consists of a tree of domain names. Each node in
the tree holds information associated with the domain name. The tree
sub-divides into zones beginning at the DNS root zone.\
![](./images/15008013.png?width=481)

