# IPSec


IP Security

In computing, Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) is a secure network
protocol suite of IPv4 that authenticates and encrypts the packets of
data sent over an IPv4 network. Because of the complexity or immaturity
of the IP security protocols, the initial IPv4 was developed without or
barely with security protocols such that the IP version was incomplete,
open or left for further research development. IPsec includes protocols
for establishing mutual authentication between agents at the beginning
of the session and negotiation of cryptographic keys to use during the
session. IPsec can protect data flows between a pair of hosts
(host-to-host), between a pair of security gateways
(network-to-network), or between a security gateway and a host
(network-to-host).\[1\] Internet Protocol security (IPsec) uses
cryptographic security services to protect communications over Internet
Protocol (IP) networks. IPsec supports network-level peer
authentication, data-origin authentication, data integrity, data
confidentiality (encryption), and replay protection.

As a part of the IPv4 enhancement, IPsec is a layer 3 OSI model or
Internet Layer for an end-to-end security scheme operating in the
Internet Protocol Suite in version 4, while some other Internet security
systems in widespread use are above the layer 3, such as Transport Layer
Security (TLS) and Secure Shell (SSH), operate in the upper layers at
the Transport Layer (TLS) and the Application layer (SSH). IPsec can
automatically secure applications at the IP layer.

