# ISDN


Integrated Services Digital Network

Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) is a set of communication
standards for simultaneous digital transmission of voice, video, data,
and other network services over the traditional circuits of the public
switched telephone network. It was first defined in 1988 in the CCITT
red book.\[1\] Prior to ISDN, the telephone system was viewed as a way
to transport voice, with some special services available for data. The
key feature of ISDN is that it integrates speech and data on the same
lines, adding features that were not available in the classic telephone
system. The ISDN standards define several kinds of access interfaces,
such as Basic Rate Interface (BRI), Primary Rate Interface (PRI),
Narrowband ISDN (N-ISDN), and Broadband ISDN (B-ISDN).

ISDN is a circuit-switched telephone network system, which also provides
access to packet switched networks, designed to allow digital
transmission of voice and data over ordinary telephone copper wires,
resulting in potentially better voice quality than an analog phone can
provide. It offers circuit-switched connections (for either voice or
data), and packet-switched connections (for data), in increments of 64
kilobit/s. In some countries, ISDN found major market application for
Internet access, in which ISDN typically provides a maximum of 128
kbit/s bandwidth in both upstream and downstream directions. Channel
bonding can achieve a greater data rate; typically the ISDN B-channels
of three or four BRIs (six to eight 64 kbit/s channels) are bonded.\
![](./images/15008408.png?width=480)

