# 5ESS


5ESS Switching System

The 5ESS Switching System is a telephone electronic switching system
developed by Western Electric for the American Telephone and Telegraph
Company (AT&T) and the Bell System in the United States.

The 5ESS came to market as the Western Electric No.Â 5 ESS. It first
commenced service in Seneca, Illinois on 25 March 1982, and was destined
to replace the Number One Electronic Switching System (1ESS and 1AESS)
and other electromechanical systems in the 1980s and 1990s. The 5ESS was
also used as a Class 4 telephone switch or as a hybrid Class 4/Class 5
switch in markets too small for the 4ESS. Approximately half of all US
central offices are served by 5ESS switches. The 5ESS is also exported
internationally, and manufactured outside the US under license.

The 5ESS technology was transferred to the AT&T Network Systems division
upon the breakup of the Bell System. The division was divested by AT&T
as Lucent Technologies, and after becoming Alcatel-Lucent, it was
acquired by Nokia.

The 5ESS switch has three main types of modules: the Administrative
Module (AM) contains the central computers; the Communications Module
(CM) is the central time-divided switch of the system; and the Switching
Module (SM) makes up the majority of the equipment in most exchanges.
The SM performs multiplexing, analog and digital coding, and other work
to interface with external equipment. Each has a controller, a small
computer with duplicated CPUs and memories, like most common equipment
of the exchange, for redundancy. Distributed systems lessen the load on
the Central Administrative Module (AM) or main computer.

