# B

## B2B

business-to-business

Business-to-business (B2B or, in some countries, BtoB) refers to a
situation where one business makes a commercial transaction with
another. This typically occurs when:

A business is sourcing materials for their production process (e.g. a
food manufacturer purchasing salt).\
A business needs the services of another for operational reasons (e.g. a
food manufacturer employing an accountancy firm to audit their
finances).\
A business re-sells goods and services produced by others (e.g. a
retailer buying the end product from the food manufacturer).\
B2B is often contrasted with business-to-consumer (B2C). In B2B
commerce, it is often the case that the parties to the relationship have
comparable negotiating power, and even when they do not, each party
typically involves professional staff and legal counsel in the
negotiation of terms, whereas B2C is shaped to a far greater degree by
economic implications of information asymmetry. However, within a B2B
context, large companies may have many commercial, resource and
information advantages over smaller businesses.

## B2C

business-to-consumer

Business to consumer (B2C) refers to the transactions conducted directly
between a company and consumers who are the end-users of its products or
services. The business to consumer as a business model differs
significantly from the business-to-business model, which refers to
commerce between two or more businesses. While most companies that sell
directly to consumers can be referred to as B2C companies, the term
became immensely popular during the dotcom boom of the late 1990s, when
it was used mainly to refer to online retailers, as well as other
companies that sold products and services to consumers through the
internet.

## Backhaul

In a hierarchical telecommunications network the backhaul portion of the
network comprises the intermediate links between the core network, or
backbone network, and the small subnetworks at the "edge" of the entire
hierarchical network.

In contracts pertaining to such networks, backhaul is the obligation to
carry packets to and from that global network. A non-technical business
definition of backhaul is the commercial wholesale bandwidth provider
who offers quality of service (QOS) guarantees to the retailer. It
appears most often in telecommunications trade literature in this sense,
whereby the backhaul connection is defined not technically but by who
operates and manages it, and who takes legal responsibility for the
connection or uptime to the Internet or 3G/4G network. See also hotspot
contracts below.

In both the technical and commercial definitions, backhaul generally
refers to the side of the network that communicates with the global
Internet, paid for at wholesale commercial access rates to or at an
Ethernet Exchange or other core network access location. Sometimes
middle mile networks exist between the customer's own LAN and those
exchanges. This can be a local WAN or WLAN connection, for instance
Network New Hampshire Now and Maine Fiber Company run tariffed public
dark fiber networks as a backhaul alternative to encourage local and
national carriers to reach areas with broadband and cell phone that they
otherwise would not be serving. These serve retail networks which in
turn connect buildings and bill customers directly.

## Backlog

A backlog is an ordered list of items representing everything that may
be needed to deliver a specific outcome. There are different types of
backlogs depending on the type of item they contain and the approach
being used.

## Backlog Grooming

Backlog grooming is when the product owner and some, or all, of the rest
of the team refine the backlog on a regular basis to ensure the backlog
contains the appropriate items, that they are prioritized, and that the
items at the top of the backlog are ready for delivery.

##  Bandwidth

Bandwidth is the maximum rate of data transfer across a given path.
Bandwidth may be characterized as network bandwidth, data bandwidth, or
digital bandwidth.

This definition of bandwidth is in contrast to the field of signal
processing, wireless communications, modem data transmission, digital
communications, and electronics\[citation needed\], in which bandwidth
is used to refer to analog signal bandwidth measured in hertz, meaning
the frequency range between lowest and highest attainable frequency
while meeting a well-defined impairment level in signal power.

However, the actual bit rate that can be achieved depends not only on
the signal bandwidth, but also on the noise on the channel.

##  Baseline

The original version of an *artifact* that serves as the basis for all
future development work. Baselined artifacts are normally placed
under *change control*.

##  Bash

Bash is a Unix shell and command language written by Brian Fox for the
GNU Project as a free software replacement for the Bourne shell. First
released in 1989, it has been distributed widely as the default login
shell for most Linux distributions and Apple's macOS (formerly OS X). A
version is also available for Windows 10. It is also the default user
shell in Solaris 11.

Bash is a command processor that typically runs in a text window where
the user types commands that cause actions. Bash can also read and
execute commands from a file, called a shell script. Like all Unix
shells, it supports filename globbing (wildcard matching), piping, here
documents, command substitution, variables, and control
structures for condition-testing and iteration. The keywords, syntax and
other basic features of the language are all copied from sh. Other
features, e.g., history, are copied from csh and ksh. Bash is a
POSIX-compliant shell, but with a number of extensions.

The shell's name is an acronym for Bourne-again shell, a pun on the name
of the Bourne shell that it replaces.

##  BASIC

BASIC (an acronym for Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code)
is a family of general-purpose, high-level programming languages whose
design philosophy emphasizes ease of use. In 1964, John G. Kemeny,
Thomas E. Kurtz and Sr. Mary Kenneth Keller designed the original BASIC
language at Dartmouth College. They wanted to enable students in fields
other than science and mathematics to use computers. At the time, nearly
all use of computers required writing custom software, which was
something only scientists and mathematicians tended to learn.

##  BAU

Business as Usual

Business as usual (BAU) - the normal execution of standard functional
operations within an organization - forms a possible contrast to
projects or programmes which might introduce change.\[citation needed\]
BAU may also stand in contradistinction to external events which may
have the effect of unsettling or distracting those inside an
organisation

##  BDD

Behavior Driven Development (BDD)

BDD is a practice where members of the team discuss the expected
behavior of a system in order to build a shared understanding of
expected functionality.

##  Bench Test

A *test* that is performed in the *development environment* and focuses
on the part of the system being worked on.

##  BER

Bit Error Rate

In digital transmission, the number of bit errors is the number of
received bits of a data stream over a communication channel that have
been altered due to noise, interference, distortion or bit
synchronization errors.

The bit error rate (BER) is the number of bit errors per unit time. The
bit error ratio (also BER) is the number of bit errors divided by the
total number of transferred bits during a studied time interval. Bit
error ratio is a unitless performance measure, often expressed as a
percentage.

##  BER

Basic Encoding Rules

The format for Basic Encoding Rules specifies a self-describing and
self-delimiting format for encoding ASN.1 data structures. Each data
element is encoded as a type identifier, a length description, the
actual data elements, and, where necessary, an end-of-content marker.
These types of encodings are commonly called type-length-value or TLV
encodings. This format allows a receiver to decode the ASN.1 information
from an incomplete stream, without requiring any pre-knowledge of the
size, content, or semantic meaning of the data.

##  Best Practice

A practice, technique, process, or idiom that has been proven effective
and/or efficient for completing a goal or addressing common risks.
See *CxOne Best Practice* material type.

##  Best Practice Description

CxBest

CxOne best practice material type, see *CxOneOverview* for description.

##  BGCF

Breakout Gateway Control Function

A Breakout Gateway Control Function (BGCF) is a SIP proxy which
processes requests for routing from an S-CSCF when the S-CSCF has
determined that the session cannot be routed using DNS or ENUM/DNS. It
includes routing functionality based on telephone numbers.\
![](./images/B/15007813.png?width=480)

##  BGP

Border Gateway Protocol

Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is a standardized exterior gateway
protocol designed to exchange routing and reachability information among
autonomous systems (AS) on the Internet. The protocol is classified as a
path vector protocol. The Border Gateway Protocol makes routing
decisions based on paths, network policies, or rule-sets configured by a
network administrator and is involved in making core routing decisions.

##  Bjarne Stroustrup

Bjarne Stroustrup is a Danish computer scientist, who is most notable
for the creation and development of the widely used C++ programming
language.

##  Black-Box Testing

Synonym for *functional testing*.

##  Bluetooth

Bluetooth is a wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances (using short-wavelength UHF radio waves in the ISM band
from 2.4 to 2.485 GHz) from fixed and mobile devices, and building
personal area networks (PANs). Invented by Dutch electrical engineer
Jaap Haartsen, working for telecom vendor Ericsson in 1994, it was
originally conceived as a wireless alternative to RS-232 data cables.

Bluetooth is managed by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG),
which has more than 30,000 member companies in the areas of
telecommunication, computing, networking, and consumer electronics. The
IEEE standardized Bluetooth as IEEE 802.15.1, but no longer maintains
the standard.

##  BNF

Backus--Naur form

In computer science, Backus--Naur form or Backus normal form (BNF) is a
metasyntax notation for context-free grammars, often used to describe
the syntax of languages used in computing, such as computer programming
languages, document formats, instruction sets and communication
protocols. They are applied wherever exact descriptions of languages are
needed: for instance, in official language specifications, in manuals,
and in textbooks on programming language theory.

Many extensions and variants of the original Backus--Naur notation are
used; some are exactly defined, including extended Backus--Naur form
(EBNF) and augmented Backus--Naur form (ABNF).

`<postal-address>`{=html} ::= `<name-part>`{=html}
`<street-address>`{=html} `<zip-part>`{=html} `<name-part>`{=html} ::=
`<personal-part>`{=html} `<last-name>`{=html} `<opt-suffix-part>`{=html}
`<EOL>`{=html} `<personal-part>`{=html} `<name-part>`{=html}
`<personal-part>`{=html} ::= `<initial>`{=html} "."
`<first-name>`{=html} `<street-address>`{=html} ::= `<house-num>`{=html}
`<street-name>`{=html} `<opt-apt-num>`{=html} `<EOL>`{=html}
`<zip-part>`{=html} ::= `<town-name>`{=html} "," `<state-code>`{=html}
`<ZIP-code>`{=html} `<EOL>`{=html} `<opt-suffix-part>`{=html} ::= "Sr."
"Jr." `<roman-numeral>`{=html} \"\" `<opt-apt-num>`{=html} ::=
`<apt-num>`{=html} \"\"

##  BNG

Broadband Network Gateway

The Broadband Network Gateway (BNG) allows subscribers to connect to a
broadband network through an access portal. It creates and manages
subscriber sessions, aggregating traffic from various subscriber
sessions from an access network, and routing it to the network of the
Internet Service Provider (ISP) or Network Service Provider (NSP).

##  BOOTP

Dynamic IP Address Allocation -- Bootstrap protocol

The Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP) is a computer networking protocol used in
Internet Protocol networks to automatically assign an IP address to
network devices from a configuration server. The BOOTP was originally
defined in RFC 951.

When a computer that is connected to a network is powered up and boots
its operating system, the system software broadcasts BOOTP messages onto
the network to request an IP address assignment. A BOOTP configuration
server assigns an IP address based on the request from a pool of
addresses configured by an administrator.

BOOTP is implemented using the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) as transport
protocol, port number 67 is used by the (DHCP) server to receive client
requests and port number 68 is used by the client to receive (DHCP)
server responses. BOOTP operates only on IPv4 networks.

Historically, BOOTP has also been used for Unix-like diskless
workstations to obtain the network location of their boot image, in
addition to the IP address assignment. Enterprises used it to roll out a
pre-configured client (e.g., Windows) installation to newly installed
PCs.

##  Boston Matrix

The growth--share matrix (aka the product portfolio matrix,\[ Boston
Box, BCG-matrix, Boston matrix, Boston Consulting Group analysis,
portfolio diagram) is a chart that to help corporations to analyze their
business units, that is, their product lines. This helps the company
allocate resources and is used as an analytical tool in brand marketing,
product management, strategic management, and portfolio analysis. Some
analysis of market performance by firms using its principles has called
its usefulness into question.

##  Bottom-Up Estimation

Estimating a system by decomposing it and then estimating each
decomposed piece individually, rolling up the total to get an entire
system estimate.

##  BPEL

Business Process Execution Language

BPEL (Business Process Execution Language) is an XML-based language that
allows Web services in a service-oriented architecture (SOA) to
interconnect and share data.

Programmers use BPEL to define how a business process that involves web
services will be executed. BPEL messages are typically used to invoke
remote services, orchestrate process execution and manage events and
exceptions.

BPEL is often associated with Business Process Management Notation
(BPMN), a standard for representing business processes graphically. In
many organizations, analysts use BPMN to visualize business processes
and developers transform the visualizations to BPEL for execution.

BPEL was standardized by OASIS in 2004 after collaborative efforts to
create the language by Microsoft, IBM and other companies.

##  BPMN

Business Process Model and Notation

Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN) is a graphical representation
for specifying business processes in a business process model.

Business Process Management Initiative (BPMI) developed BPMN, which has
been maintained by the Object Management Group since the two
organizations merged in 2005. Version 2.0 of BPMN was released in
January 2011,\[1\] at which point the name was adapted to Business
Process Model and Notation as execution semantics were also introduced
alongside the notational and diagramming elements.\
![](./images/B/15007821.png?width=698)

##  BRAS

Broadband Remote Access Server

A broadband remote access server (BRAS, B-RAS or BBRAS) routes traffic
to and from broadband remote access devices such as digital subscriber
line access multiplexers (DSLAM) on an Internet service provider's (ISP)
network

BRAS can also be referred to as a Broadband Network Gateway (BNG)

![](./images/B/15007827.png?width=485)

![](./images/B/15007833.png?width=440)

##  Broadcast

In computer networking, telecommunication and information theory,
broadcasting is a method of transferring a message to all recipients
simultaneously. Broadcasting can be performed as a high level operation
in a program, for example broadcasting Message Passing Interface, or it
may be a low level networking operation, for example broadcasting on
Ethernet.

All-to-all communication is a computer communication method in which
each sender transmits messages to all receivers within a group. This
contrasts with the point-to-point method in which each sender
communicates with one receiver.

![](./images/B/15007839.png?width=227)

##  BSC

The base station controller (BSC) provides, classically, the
intelligence behind the BTSs. Typically a BSC has tens or even hundreds
of BTSs under its control. The BSC handles allocation of radio channels,
receives measurements from the mobile phones, and controls handovers
from BTS to BTS (except in the case of an inter-BSC handover in which
case control is in part the responsibility of the anchor MSC). A key
function of the BSC is to act as a concentrator where many different low
capacity connections to BTSs (with relatively low utilisation) become
reduced to a smaller number of connections towards the mobile switching
center (MSC) (with a high level of utilisation). Overall, this means
that networks are often structured to have many BSCs distributed into
regions near their BTSs which are then connected to large centralised
MSC sites.

The BSC is undoubtedly the most robust element in the BSS as it is not
only a BTS controller but, for some vendors, a full switching center, as
well as an SS7 node with connections to the MSC and serving GPRS support
node (SGSN) (when using GPRS). It also provides all the required data to
the operation support subsystem (OSS) as well as to the performance
measuring centers.

A BSC is often based on a distributed computing architecture, with
redundancy applied to critical functional units to ensure availability
in the event of fault conditions. Redundancy often extends beyond the
BSC equipment itself and is commonly used in the power supplies and in
the transmission equipment providing the A-ter interface to PCU.\
![](./images/B/15007845.png?width=399)

##  BSS

Base station subsystem

The base station subsystem (BSS) is the section of a traditional
cellular telephone network which is responsible for handling traffic and
signaling between a mobile phone and the network switching subsystem.
The BSS carries out transcoding of speech channels, allocation of radio
channels to mobile phones, paging, transmission and reception over the
air interface and many other tasks related to the radio network.

BSS interfaces

-   Um

    -   The air interface between the mobile station (MS) and the BTS.
        This interface uses LAPDm protocol for signaling, to conduct
        call control, measurement reporting, handover, power control,
        authentication, authorization, location update and so on.
        Traffic and signaling are sent in bursts of 0.577 ms at
        intervals of 4.615 ms, to form data blocks each 20 ms.

-   Abis

    -   The interface between the BTS and BSC. Generally carried by a
        DS-1, ES-1, or E1 TDM circuit. Uses TDM subchannels for traffic
        (TCH), LAPD protocol for BTS supervision and telecom signaling,
        and carries synchronization from the BSC to the BTS and MS.

-   A

    -   The interface between the BSC and MSC. It is used for carrying
        traffic channels and the BSSAP user part of the SS7 stack.
        Although there are usually transcoding units between BSC and
        MSC, the signaling communication takes place between these two
        ending points and the transcoder unit doesn't touch the SS7
        information, only the voice or CS data are transcoded or rate
        adapted.

-   Ater

    -   The interface between the BSC and transcoder. It is a
        proprietary interface whose name depends on the vendor (for
        example Ater by Nokia), it carries the A interface information
        from the BSC leaving it untouched.

-   Gb

    -   Connects the BSS to the SGSN in the GPRS core network.

            ![](./images/B/15007851.png?width=251)

##  BSS

Business support systems

Business support systems (BSS) are the components that a
telecommunications service provider (or telco) uses to run its business
operations towards customers.

Together with operations support systems (OSS), they are used to support
various end-to-end telecommunication services (e.g., telephone
services). BSS and OSS have their own data and service responsibilities.
The two systems together are often abbreviated OSS/BSS, BSS/OSS or
simply B/OSS.

The acronym BSS is also used in a singular form to refer to all the
business support systems viewed as a whole system.

##  BT 21CN

BT 21st Century Network

21CN involves a huge overhaul of the existing 20CN network. Over the
next few years BT will gradually be updating the existing equipment and
replacing it with a new multi-service network.

The PSTN (telephone) services will be provided over the same IP network
as broadband. This will involve replacing telephone switching equipment
and the adsl broadband DSLAMs with MSANs (Multi-Service Access Nodes)
which will terminate telephone and broadband connections.\
Note: Plans to also move the telephone network over to IP has been
temporary been abandoned by BT.

As well as faster speeds the new equipment will also allow BT more
configuration options and allow them to offer products with QoS (Quality
of Service) availability.

![](./images/B/15007857.png?width=485)

![](./images/B/15007863.png?width=480)

##  BTNUP

See IUP

##  BTS

Base Transceiver Station

A base transceiver station (BTS) is a piece of equipment that
facilitates wireless communication between user equipment (UE) and a
network. UEs are devices like mobile phones (handsets), WLL phones,
computers with wireless Internet connectivity. The network can be that
of any of the wireless communication technologies like GSM, CDMA,
wireless local loop, Wi-Fi, WiMAX or other wide area network (WAN)
technology.

BTS is also referred to as the node B (in 3G Networks) or, simply, the
Base Station (BS). For discussion of the LTE standard the abbreviation
eNB for evolved node B is widely used

##  bug

a coding error in a computer program.

##  Build

The process of executing a software build, which is normally largely
automated. Also refers to the resulting output, which is a built version
of a system, ready for testing.

##  Build Environment

A *development environment* that is isolated and dedicated to the create
of *builds*. Normally one or more dedicate *build machines*.

##  Build Machine

A computer dedicated to the create of software *builds*.

##  build tool

a programming utility that is used when building a new version of a
program.

##  Burndown Chart

Burndown charts and burnup charts track the amount of output (in terms
of hours, story points, or backlog items) a team has completed across an
iteration or a project.\
![](./images/B/15007869.png?width=480)

##  Burst

In telecommunication, a burst transmission or data burst is the
broadcast of a relatively high-bandwidth transmission over a short
period.

##  Business Agility Ownership

Business agility is the ability of an organization to sense changes
internally or externally and respond accordingly in order to deliver
value to its customers.

##  Business Requirement

High level objectives of the organization or customer requesting a
system or product. Also known as the *Why Requirements*.

##  Business Schedule

High level project schedule containing top level milestones and their
associated business goals for the entire project. A business schedule
often defines a set of top-down schedule constraints that will be
managed to. Compare to *detailed schedule*.

##  BYOD

Bring your own device

Bring your own device (BYOD)---also called bring your own technology
(BYOT), bring your own phone (BYOP), and bring your own personal
computer (BYOPC)---refers to the policy of permitting employees to bring
personally owned devices (laptops, tablets, and smart phones) to their
workplace, and to use those devices to access privileged company
information and applications. The phenomenon is commonly referred to as
IT consumerization.

BYOD is making significant inroads in the business world, with about 75%
of employees in high growth markets such as Brazil and Russia and 44% in
developed markets already using their own technology at work. Surveys
have indicated that businesses are unable to stop employees from
bringing personal devices into the workplace. Research is divided on
benefits. One survey shows around 95% of employees stating they use at
least one personal device for work. a food manufacturer employing an
accountancy firm to audit their finances).\
A business re-sells goods and services produced by others (e.g. a
retailer buying the end product from the food manufacturer).\
B2B is often contrasted with business-to-consumer (B2C). In B2B
commerce, it is often the case that the parties to the relationship have
comparable negotiating power, and even when they do not, each party
typically involves professional staff and legal counsel in the
negotiation of terms, whereas B2C is shaped to a far greater degree by
economic implications of information asymmetry. However, within a B2B
context, large companies may have many commercial, resource and
information advantages over smaller businesses.
