# C

## C

C is a general-purpose, imperative computer programming language,
supporting structured programming, lexical variable scope and recursion,
while a static type system prevents many unintended operations. By
design, C provides constructs that map efficiently to typical machine
instructions, and therefore it has found lasting use in applications
that had formerly been coded in assembly language, including operating
systems, as well as various application software for computers ranging
from supercomputers to embedded systems.

C was originally developed by Dennis Ritchie between 1969 and 1973 at
Bell Labs, and used to re-implement the Unix operating system. It has
since become one of the most widely used programming languages of all
time, with C compilers from various vendors available for the
majority of existing computer architectures and operating systems. C has
been standardized by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
since 1989 (see ANSI C) and subsequently by the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO).

C is an imperative procedural language. It was designed to be compiled
using a relatively straightforward compiler, to provide low-level access
to memory, to provide language constructs that map efficiently to
machine instructions, and to require minimal run-time support. Despite
its low-level capabilities, the language was designed to encourage
cross-platform programming. A standards-compliant and portably written C
program can be compiled for a very wide variety of computer platforms
and operating systems with few changes to its source code. The language
has become available on a very wide range of platforms, from embedded
microcontrollers to supercomputers.

``` {.c}
#include <stdio.h>
int main() {
   // printf() displays the string inside quotation
   printf("Hello, World!");
   return 0;
}
```

## C\#

C\# is a multi-paradigm programming language encompassing strong typing,
imperative, declarative, functional, generic, object-oriented
(class-based), and component-oriented programming disciplines. It was
developed around 2000 by Microsoft within its .NET initiative and later
approved as a standard by Ecma (ECMA-334) and ISO (ISO/IEC 23270:2006).
C\# is one of the programming languages designed for the Common Language
Infrastructure.

C\# is a general-purpose, object-oriented programming language.

``` {.c#}
// Hello World! program
namespace HelloWorld
{
    class Hello {         
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            System.Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
        }
    }
}
```

## C++

C++ is a general-purpose programming language. It has imperative,
object-oriented and generic programming features, while also providing
facilities for low-level memory manipulation.

It was designed with a bias toward system programming and embedded,
resource-constrained and large systems, with performance, efficiency and
flexibility of use as its design highlights. C++ has also been found
useful in many other contexts, with key strengths being software
infrastructure and resource-constrained applications, including desktop
applications, servers (e.g. e-commerce, Web search or SQL servers), and
performance-critical applications (e.g. telephone switches or space
probes). C++ is a compiled language, with implementations of it
available on many platforms. Many vendors provide C++ compilers,
including the Free Software Foundation, Microsoft, Intel, and IBM.

C++ is standardized by the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO), with the latest standard version
ratified and published by ISO in December 2017 as ISO/IEC 14882:2017
(informally known as C+17). The C+ programming language was initially
standardized in 1998 as ISO/IEC 14882:1998, which was then amended by
the C+03, C11 and C14 standards. The current C17 standard supersedes
these with new features and an enlarged standard library. Before the
initial standardization in 1998, C+ was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup
at Bell Labs since 1979, as an extension of the C language as he wanted
an efficient and flexible language similar to C, which also provided
high-level features for program organization. C++20 is the next planned
standard thereafter.

``` {.cpp}
// Your First C++ Program

#include <iostream>

int main() {
    std::cout << "Hello World!";
    return 0;
}
```

## CA

Certificate Authority

In cryptography, a certificate authority or certification authority (CA)
is an entity that issues digital certificates. A digital certificate
certifies the ownership of a public key by the named subject of the
certificate. This allows others (relying parties) to rely upon
signatures or on assertions made about the private key that corresponds
to the certified public key. A CA acts as a trusted third
party---trusted both by the subject (owner) of the certificate and by
the party relying upon the certificate. The format of these certificates
is specified by the X.509 standard.

One particularly common use for certificate authorities is to sign
certificates used in HTTPS, the secure browsing protocol for the World
Wide Web. Another common use is in issuing identity cards by national
governments for use in electronically signing documents.

![](./images/C/15007880.png?width=480)

## Cacti

Cacti is an open-source, web-based network monitoring and graphing tool
designed as a front-end application for the open-source,
industry-standard data logging tool RRDtool. Cacti allows a user to poll
services at predetermined intervals and graph the resulting data. It is
generally used to graph time-series data of metrics such as CPU load and
network bandwidth utilization. A common usage is to monitor network
traffic by polling a network switch or router interface via Simple
Network Management Protocol (SNMP).

## Cadence

the number of days or weeks in a Sprint or release; the length of the
team's development cycle.

## Calendar Days

Time measure of the number of work days an activity takes.\
The relationship between *staff days* and *calendar days* depends on how
the work is scheduled.

## CAM Item

*Corrective activity management* item. This is an abstract term
referring to a *change request*, *defect*, *risk*, or *issue* that is
being managed in a CAM process.

## CAMEL

Customized Applications for Mobile networks Enhanced Logic

Customized Applications for Mobile networks Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) is a
set of standards designed to work on either a GSM core network or the
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) network. The framework
provides tools for operators to define additional features for standard
GSM services/UMTS services. The CAMEL architecture is based on the
Intelligent Network (IN) standards, and uses the CAP protocol. The
protocols are codified in a series of ETSI Technical Specifications.

Many services can be created using CAMEL, and it is particularly
effective in allowing these services to be offered when a subscriber is
roaming, like, for instance, no-prefix dialing (the number the user
dials is the same no matter the country where the call is placed) or
seamless MMS message access from abroad.

## Camel Case

Camel case (stylized as camelCase or CamelCase; also known as camel caps
or more formally as medial capitals) is the practice of writing compound
words or phrases such that each word or abbreviation in the middle of
the phrase begins with a capital letter, with no intervening spaces or
punctuation. Common examples include "iPhone", "eBay", "FedEx",
"DreamWorks", and "HarperCollins". It is also sometimes used in online
usernames such as "JohnSmith", and to make multi-word domain names more
legible, for example in advertisements.

Programming and coding\
The use of medial caps for compound identifiers is recommended by the
coding style guidelines of many organizations or software
projects. For some languages (such as Mesa, Pascal, Modula, Java and
Microsoft's .NET) this practice is recommended by the language
developers or by authoritative manuals and has therefore become part of
the language's "culture".

Style guidelines often distinguish between upper and lower camel case,
typically specifying which variety should be used for specific kinds of
entities: variables, record fields, methods, procedures, types, etc.
These rules are sometimes supported by static analysis tools that check
source code for adherence.

The original Hungarian notation for programming, for example, specifies
that a lowercase abbreviation for the "usage type" (not data type)
should prefix all variable names, with the remainder of the name in
upper camel case; as such it is a form of lower camel case.

Programming identifiers often need to contain acronyms and initialisms
that are already in uppercase, such as "old HTML file". By analogy with
the title case rules, the natural camel case rendering would have the
abbreviation all in uppercase, namely "oldHTMLFile". However, this
approach is problematic when two acronyms occur together (e.g., "parse
DBM XML" would become "parseDBMXML") or when the standard mandates lower
camel case but the name begins with an abbreviation (e.g. "SQL server"
would become "sQLServer"). For this reason, some programmers prefer to
treat abbreviations as if they were lowercase words and write
"oldHtmlFile", "parseDbmXml" or "sqlServer". However, this can make it
harder to recognise that a given word is intended as an acronym.

## CAP

CAMEL Application Part

The CAMEL Application Part (CAP) is a signalling protocol used in the
Intelligent Network (IN) architecture. CAP is a Remote Operations
Service Element (ROSE) user protocol, and as such is layered on top of
the Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) of the SS\#7
protocol suite. CAP is based on a subset of the ETSI Core and allows for
the implementation of carrier-grade, value added services such as
unified messaging, prepaid, fraud control and Freephone in both the GSM
voice and GPRS data networks. CAMEL is a means of adding intelligent
applications to mobile (rather than fixed) networks. It builds upon
established practices in the fixed line telephony business that are
generally classed under the heading of (Intelligent Network Application
Part) or INAP CS-2 protocol

## Capability Maturity Model

The Capability Maturity Model (CMM) is a development model created after
a study of data collected from organizations that contracted with the
U.S. Department of Defense, who funded the research. The term "maturity"
relates to the degree of formality and optimization of processes, from
ad hoc practices, to formally defined steps, to managed result metrics,
to active optimization of the processes.

The model's aim is to improve existing software development processes,
but it can also be applied to other processes.

Structure\
The model involves five aspects:

-   Maturity Levels: a 5-level process maturity continuum - where the
    uppermost (5th) level is a notional ideal state where processes
    would be systematically managed by a combination of process
    optimization and continuous process improvement.

-   Key Process Areas: a Key Process Area identifies a cluster of
    related activities that, when performed together, achieve a set of
    goals considered important.

-   Goals: the goals of a key process area summarize the states that
    must exist for that key process area to have been implemented in an
    effective and lasting way. The extent to which the goals have been
    accomplished is an indicator of how much capability the organization
    has established at that maturity level. The goals signify the scope,
    boundaries, and intent of each key process area.

-   Common Features: common features include practices that implement
    and institutionalize a key process area. There are five types of
    common features: commitment to perform, ability to perform,
    activities performed, measurement and analysis, and verifying
    implementation.

-   Key Practices: The key practices describe the elements of
    infrastructure and practice that contribute most effectively to the
    implementation and institutionalization of the area.

    Levels\
    There are five levels defined along the continuum of the model and,
    according to the SEI: "Predictability, effectiveness, and control of
    an organization's software processes are believed to improve as the
    organization moves up these five levels. While not rigorous, the
    empirical evidence to date supports this belief".

-   Initial (chaotic, ad hoc, individual heroics) - the starting point
    for use of a new or undocumented repeat process.

-   Repeatable - the process is at least documented sufficiently such
    that repeating the same steps may be attempted.

-   Defined - the process is defined/confirmed as a standard business
    process

-   Capable - the process is quantitatively managed in accordance with
    agreed-upon metrics.

-   Efficient - process management includes deliberate process
    optimization/improvement.

    Within each of these maturity levels are Key Process Areas which
    characterise that level, and for each such area there are five
    factors: goals, commitment, ability, measurement, and verification.
    These are not necessarily unique to CMM, representing --- as they do
    --- the stages that organizations must go through on the way to
    becoming mature.

    The model provides a theoretical continuum along which process
    maturity can be developed incrementally from one level to the next.
    Skipping levels is not allowed/feasible.

## Cat 5

Category 5 cable, commonly referred to as Cat 5, is a twisted pair cable
for computer networks. The cable standard provides performance of up to
100 MHz and is suitable for most varieties of Ethernet over twisted
pair. Cat 5 is also used to carry other signals such as telephony and
video.

This cable is commonly connected using punch-down blocks and modular
connectors. Most Category 5 cables are unshielded, relying on the
balanced line twisted pair design and differential signaling for noise
rejection.

The category 5 specification was deprecated in 2001 and is superseded by
the category 5e specification.

## Cat 5e

See cat 5

## Cat 6

Category 6 cable, commonly referred to as Cat 6, is a standardized
twisted pair cable for Ethernet and other network physical layers that
is backward compatible with the Category 5/5e and Category 3 cable
standards.

Compared with Cat 5 and Cat 5e, Cat 6 features more stringent
specifications for crosstalk and system noise. The cable standard also
specifies performance of up to 250 MHz compared to 100 MHz for Cat 5 and
Cat 5e.

Whereas Category 6 cable has a reduced maximum length of 55 meters when
used for 10GBASE-T, Category 6A cable (or Augmented Category 6) is
characterized to 500 MHz and has improved alien crosstalk
characteristics, allowing 10GBASE-T to be run for the same 100 meter
maximum distance as previous Ethernet variants.

## CCITT

Comité Consultatif International Téléphonique et Télégraphique

See ITU-T

## CCS

Common Channel Signalling

In telephony, common-channel signaling (CCS), in the US also
common-channel interoffice signaling (CCIS), is the transmission of
signaling information (control information) on a separate channel than
the data, and, more specifically, where that signaling channel controls
multiple data channels.

For example, in the public switched telephone network (PSTN) one channel
of a communications link is typically used for the sole purpose of
carrying signaling for establishment and tear down of telephone calls.
The remaining channels are used entirely for the transmission of voice
data. In most cases, a single 64kbit/s channel is sufficient to handle
the call setup and call clear-down traffic for numerous voice and data
channels.

The logical alternative to CCS is channel-associated signaling (CAS), in
which each bearer channel has a signaling channel dedicated to it.

CCS offers the following advantages over CAS, in the context of the
PSTN:

-   Faster call set-up time

-   Greater trunking efficiency due to the quicker set up and clearing,
    thereby reducing traffic on the network

-   Can transfer additional information along with the signaling
    traffic, providing features such as caller ID

-   Signaling can be performed mid-call

    The most common CCS signaling methods in use today are Integrated
    Services Digital Network (ISDN) and Signalling System No. 7 (SS7).

    ISDN signaling is used primarily on trunks connecting end-user
    private branch exchange (PBX) systems to a central office. SS7 is
    primarily used within the PSTN. The two signaling methods are very
    similar since they share a common heritage and in some cases, the
    same signaling messages are transmitted in both ISDN and SS7.

## CCTA

Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency

The Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency (CCTA) was a UK
government agency providing computer and telecoms support to government
departments.

## CDMA

Code-division multiple access

Code-division multiple access (CDMA) is a channel access method used by
various radio communication technologies.

CDMA is an example of multiple access, where several transmitters can
send information simultaneously over a single communication channel.
This allows several users to share a band of frequencies . To permit
this without undue interference between the users, CDMA employs spread
spectrum technology and a special coding scheme (where each transmitter
is assigned a code).

CDMA is used as the access method in many mobile phone standards. IS-95,
also called "cdmaOne", and its 3G evolution CDMA2000, are often simply
referred to as "CDMA", but UMTS, the 3G standard used by GSM carriers,
also uses "wideband CDMA", or W-CDMA, as well as TD-CDMA and TD-SCDMA,
as its radio technologies.

## CDMA2000

Code-division multiple access 2000

CDMA2000 (also known as C2K or IMT Multi Carrier (IMT MC)) is a family
of 3G mobile technology standards for sending voice, data, and signaling
data between mobile phones and cell sites. It is developed by 3GPP2 as a
backwards-compatible successor to second-generation cdmaOne (IS-95) set
of standards and used especially in North America and South Korea.

CDMA2000 compares to UMTS, a competing set of 3G standards, which is
developed by 3GPP and used in Europe, Japan, and China.

## CDR

Call Detail Record

A call detail record (CDR) is a data record produced by a telephone
exchange or other telecommunications equipment that documents the
details of a telephone call or other telecommunications transaction
(e.g., text message) that passes through that facility or device. The
record contains various attributes of the call, such as time, duration,
completion status, source number, and destination number.

## CE

Customer Edge

The customer edge (CE) is the router at the customer premises that is
connected to the provider edge of a service provider IP/MPLS network. CE
peers with the Provider Edge (PE) and exchanges routes with the
corresponding VRF inside the PE. The routing protocol used could be
static or dynamic (an interior gateway protocol like OSPF or an exterior
gateway protocol like BGP).\
![](./images/C/15007888.png?width=480)

## CER

Canonical Encoding Rules

CER (Canonical Encoding Rules) is a restricted variant of
BER for producing unequivocal transfer syntax for data structures
described by ASN.1. Whereas BER gives choices as to how data values may
be encoded, CER (together with DER) selects just one encoding from those
allowed by the basic encoding rules, eliminating rest of the options.
CER is useful when the encodings must be preserved; e.g., in security
exchanges.

## Ceremonies

meetings, often a daily planning meeting, that identify what has been
done, what is to be done and the barriers to success.

## CESG

Communication-Electronics Security Group

CESG is the UK government's national technical authority for information
assurance (IA). It protects the UK by providing policy and assistance on
the security of communications and electronic data, in partnership with
industry and academia.

The group is known as CESG. It dropped the expanded name of
Communications-Electronics Security Group in 2002 because it no longer
described the full extent of its work. CESG has existed since World War
I when it advised on the security of British codes and ciphers. Since
1997, it has charged a fee for most of the information security services
it offers rather than being funded by central government.

UK central government departments and agencies and the armed forces are
CESG's main customers. CESG also works with the wider public sector,
including health service, law enforcement, local government and the
utility companies that provide the services that form the UK's critical
national infrastructure.

CESG provides information assurance products and services and
accreditation for consultants in industry. It also produces policy and
guidance on biometrics and runs GovCertUK, the Computer Emergency
Response Team (CERT) for UK government, assisting public sector
organizations in their response to computer security incidents and
providing advice to reduce their exposure to security threats.

Other services provided by CESG include Information Assurance Maturity
Model (IAMM) assessment services for organisations wishing to check
their progress towards the National IA Strategy and security awareness
training for government clients.

## CFi

Canonical Format Indicator

A bit in an IEEE 802.1Q frame.

The Canonical Format Indicator (CFI) bit indicates whether the following
12 bits of VLAN identifier conform to Ethernet or not. For Ethernet
frames, this bit is always set to 0. (The other possible value, CFI=1,
is used for Token Ring LANs, and tagged frames should never be bridged
between an Ethernet and Token Ring LAN regardless of the VLAN tag or MAC
address.)

## CGI

Common Gateway Interface

n computing, Common Gateway Interface (CGI) offers a standard
protocol for web servers to execute programs that execute like console
applications (also called command-line interface programs) running on a
server that generates web pages dynamically. Such programs are known as
CGI scripts or simply as CGIs. The specifics of how the script is
executed by the server are determined by the server. In the common case,
a CGI script executes at the time a request is made and generates HTML.

## Change Control

CC

A subset of *change management* concerned with identifying artifacts
that will be placed under the control of a *change control board*.
Change control may refer to *explicit change control* or *implicit
change control*.\
Also a synonym for *change management*.

## Change Control Board

CCB

The group of individuals responsible for processing and making final
decisions on *change requests* to the artifacts under *change control*.

## Change Control Plan

CCP

Documents the types and levels of change control used on project
artifacts.

## Change Management

Systematic management of feature, scope, or other requested changes to
an *artifact* or *project*. Part of both *configuration
management* and *corrective activity management*.

## Change Request

CR

A request to change an item under *change control*.\
Usually a request to add, modify, or remove a system requirement based
on a business need. May also be a request to change project planning.
Change requests are a type of *corrective activity management* item.

## CHAP

Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol

In computing, the Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP)
authenticates a user or network host to an authenticating entity. That
entity may be, for example, an Internet service provider. CHAP is
specified in RFC 1994.

CHAP provides protection against replay attacks by the peer through the
use of an incrementally changing identifier and of a variable
challenge-value. CHAP requires that both the client and server know the
plaintext of the secret, although it is never sent over the network.
Thus, CHAP provides better security as compared to Password
Authentication Protocol (PAP) which is vulnerable for both these
reasons. The MS-CHAP variant does not require either peer to know the
plaintext and does not transmit it, but has been broken

## Chrome OS

Chrome OS is an operating system designed by Google that is based on the
Linux kernel and uses the Google Chrome web browser as its principal
user interface. As a result, Chrome OS primarily supports web
applications.

## Circuit Switched

Circuit switching is a method of implementing a telecommunications
network in which two network nodes establish a dedicated communications
channel (circuit) through the network before the nodes may communicate.
The circuit guarantees the full bandwidth of the channel and remains
connected for the duration of the communication session. The circuit
functions as if the nodes were physically connected as with an
electrical circuit.\
![](./images/C/15007894.png?width=480)

## Class 4 Softswitch

Softswitches used for transit VoIP traffic between carriers are usually
called class 4 softswitches. Analogous with other Class 4 telephone
switches, the main function of the class 4 softswitch is the routing of
large volumes of long distance VoIP calls. The most important
characteristics of class 4 softswitch are protocol support and
conversion, transcoding, calls per second rate, average time of one call
routing, number of concurrent calls.

## Class 5 Softswitch

Class 5 softswitches are intended for work with end-users. These
softswitches are both for local and long distance telephony services.
Class 5 softswitches are characterized by additional services for
end-users and corporate clients such as IP PBX features, call center
services, calling card platform, types of authorization, QoS, Business
Groups and other features similar to other Class 5 telephone switches.
Class 5 Softswitches may also provide analog twisted-pair POTS Access to
subscribers homes using special Central Office hardware like ATA's,
EMTA's, IAD's, And General-Purpose PBX's.

## Class Model

An internal object oriented view of a system showing the static class
structure.

## CLF

Subscriber Location Function

A subscriber location function (SLF) is needed to map user addresses
when multiple HSSs are used.\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/plugins/servlet/confluence/placeholder/unknown-attachment "UNKNOWN_ATTACHMENT")

## CMDB

Configuration Management Database

A Configuration Management Database (CMDB) is an ITIL database used by
an organization to store information about hardware and software assets
(commonly referred to as Configuration Items \[CI\]). This database acts
as a data warehouse for the organization and also stores information
regarding the relationship between its assets. The CMDB provides a means
of understanding the organization's critical assets and their
relationships, such as information systems, upstream sources or
dependencies of assets, and the downstream targets of assets.

## CMDB

configuration management database

A configuration management database (CMDB) is a data repository that
acts as a data warehouse or inventory for information technology (IT)
installations. It holds data relating to a collection of IT assets
(commonly referred to as configuration items (CI)), as well as to
descriptive relationships between such assets. The repository provides a
means of understanding:

-   the composition of critical assets such as information systems

-   the upstream sources or dependencies of assets\
    the downstream targets of assets

## CNG

Comfort Noise Generation

Comfort noise (or comfort tone) is synthetic background noise used in
radio and wireless communications to fill the artificial silence in a
transmission resulting from voice activity detection or from the audio
clarity of modern digital lines.

Some modern telephone systems (such as wireless and VoIP) use voice
activity detection (VAD), a form of squelching where low volume levels
are ignored by the transmitting device. In digital audio transmissions,
this saves bandwidth of the communications channel by transmitting
nothing when the source volume is under a certain threshold, leaving
only louder sounds (such as the speaker's voice) to be sent. However,
improvements in background noise reduction technologies can occasionally
result in the complete removal of all noise. Although maximizing call
quality is of primary importance, exhaustive removal of noise may not
properly simulate the typical behavior of terminals on the PSTN system.

The result of receiving total silence, especially for a prolonged
period, has a number of unwanted effects on the listener, including the
following:

the listener may believe that the transmission has been lost, and
therefore hang up prematurely.\
the speech may sound "choppy" (see noise gate) and difficult to
understand.\
the sudden change in sound level can be jarring to the listener.\
To counteract these effects, comfort noise is added, usually on the
receiving end in wireless or VoIP systems, to fill in the silent
portions of transmissions with artificial noise. The noise generated is
at a low but audible volume level, and can vary based on the average
volume level of received signals to minimize jarring transitions.

In many VoIP products, users may control how VAD and comfort noise are
configured, or disable the feature entirely.

As part of the RTP audio video profile, RFC 3389 defines a standard for
distributing comfort noise information in VoIP systems.

A similar concept is that of sidetone, the effect of sound that is
picked up by a telephone's mouthpiece and introduced (at low level) into
the earpiece of the same handset, acting as feedback.

## Cobol

COBOL is a compiled English-like computer programming language
designed for business use. It is imperative, procedural and, since 2002,
object-oriented. COBOL is primarily used in business, finance, and
administrative systems for companies and governments. COBOL is still
widely used in legacy applications deployed on mainframe computers, such
as large-scale batch and transaction processing jobs. But due to its
declining popularity and the retirement of experienced COBOL
programmers, programs are being migrated to new platforms, rewritten in
modern languages or replaced with software packages. Most programming in
COBOL is now purely to maintain existing applications.

COBOL was designed in 1959 by CODASYL and was partly based on previous
programming language design work by Grace Hopper, commonly referred to
as "the (grand)mother of COBOL". It was created as part of a US
Department of Defense effort to create a portable programming
language for data processing. Intended as a stopgap, the Department of
Defense promptly forced computer manufacturers to provide it, resulting
in its widespread adoption. It was standardized in 1968 and has since
been revised four times. Expansions include support for structured and
object-oriented programming. The current standard is ISO/IEC 1989:2014.

COBOL statements have an English-like syntax, which were designed to be
self-documenting and highly readable. However, it is verbose and uses
over 300 reserved words. In contrast with modern, succinct syntax like y
= x;, COBOL has a more English-like syntax (in this case, MOVE x TO y).
COBOL code is split into four divisions (identification, environment,
data and procedure) containing a rigid hierarchy of sections, paragraphs
and sentences. Lacking a large standard library, the standard specifies
43 statements, 87 functions and just one class.

## Code and Fix Lifecycle

The system is started from a general concept and evolved through some
combination of informal design, code, debug, and test methodologies
until it is ready to release

## Codecs

A codec is a device or computer program for encoding or decoding a
digital data stream or signal. Codec is a portmanteau of coder-decoder.

A codec encodes a data stream or a signal for transmission and storage,
possibly in encrypted form, and the decoder function reverses the
encoding for playback or editing. Codecs are used in videoconferencing,
streaming media, and video editing applications.\
![](./images/C/15007900.png?width=485)

## Coding

The core activity of *construction;* involves creating source code
instructions and/or data that define the behavior of a software system.

## Coding Standard

Synonym for *Construction Standard.*

## CoE

Centre of Excellence

A center of excellence (COE) is a team, a shared facility or an entity
that provides leadership, best practices, research, support and/or
training for a focus area. The focus area might be a technology
(e.g. Java), a business concept (e.g. BPM), a skill (e.g. negotiation)
or a broad area of study (e.g. women's health). A center of excellence
may also be aimed at revitalizing stalled initiatives.

Within an organization, a center of excellence may refer to a group of
people, a department or a shared facility. It may also be known as a
competency center or a capability center. The term may also refer to a
network of institutions collaborating with each other to pursue
excellence in a particular area.

## COFDM

Coded orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing

In coded orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (COFDM), forward
error correction (convolutional coding) and time/frequency interleaving
are applied to the signal being transmitted. This is done to overcome
errors in mobile communication channels affected by multipath
propagation and Doppler effects.

## Collaboration Model

Specifies the set of object roles and their interactions by showing and
describing the messages exchanged. The focus is on the relationship
between roles.

## Collaborative Construction

CCON\
(see-kahn)

A technique used during construction where a small group of 2-6
engineers work together closely to incrementally construct system
functionality. Marked by frequent, informal communication, iterative,
code-oriented *low level design* techniques, and shared ownership of
source code and test responsibilities.

## Collective code ownership

Collective code ownership is the explicit convention that every team
member can make changes to any code file as necessary: either to
complete a development task, to repair a defect, or to improve the
code's overall structure.

## COLO

COlLOcated

## Compatibility Test

See *configuration test*.

## Compiled Language

A compiled language is a programming language whose implementations are
typically compilers (translators that generate machine code from source
code), and not interpreters (step-by-step executors of source code,
where no pre-runtime translation takes place).

The term is somewhat vague. In principle, any language can be
implemented with a compiler or with an interpreter. A combination of
both solutions is also common: a compiler can translate the source code
into some intermediate form (often called p-code or bytecode), which is
then passed to an interpreter which executes it.

## Compiler Back end

The back end takes the optimized IR from the middle end. It may perform
more analysis, transformations and optimizations that are specific for
the target CPU architecture. The back end generates the target-dependent
assembly code, performing register allocation in the process. The back
end performs instruction scheduling, which re-orders instructions to
keep parallel execution units busy by filling delay slots. Although most
algorithms for optimization are NP-hard, heuristic techniques are
well-developed and currently implemented in production-quality
compilers. Typically the output of a back end is machine code
specialized for a particular processor and operating system.

## Compiler Front end

The front end verifies syntax and semantics according to a specific
source language. For statically typed languages it performs type
checking by collecting type information. If the input program is
syntactically incorrect or has a type error, it generates errors and
warnings, highlighting\[dubious -- discuss\] them on the source code.
Aspects of the front end include lexical analysis, syntax analysis, and
semantic analysis. The front end transforms the input program into an
intermediate representation (IR) for further processing by the middle
end. This IR is usually a lower-level representation of the program with
respect to the source code

## Compiler Middle end

The middle end performs optimizations on the IR that are independent of
the CPU architecture being targeted. This source code/machine code
independence is intended to enable generic optimizations to be shared
between versions of the compiler supporting different languages and
target processors. Examples of middle end optimizations are removal of
useless (dead code elimination) or unreachable code (reachability
analysis), discovery and propagation of constant values (constant
propagation), relocation of computation to a less frequently executed
place (e.g., out of a loop), or specialization of computation based on
the context. Eventually producing the "optimized" IR that is used by the
back end.

## Compiler preprocessor

In computer science, a preprocessor is a program that processes its
input data to produce output that is used as input to another program.
The output is said to be a preprocessed form of the input data, which is
often used by some subsequent programs like compilers. The amount and
kind of processing done depends on the nature of the preprocessor; some
preprocessors are only capable of performing relatively simple textual
substitutions and macro expansions, while others have the power of
full-fledged programming languages.

A common example from computer programming is the processing performed
on source code before the next step of compilation. In some computer
languages (e.g., C and PL/I) there is a phase of translation known as
preprocessing. It can also include macro processing, file inclusion and
language extensions.

## Complier

A compiler is computer software that transforms computer code written in
one programming language (the source language) into another programming
language (the target language). Compilers are a type of translator that
support digital devices, primarily computers. The name compiler is
primarily used for programs that translate source code from a high-level
programming language to a lower level language (e.g., assembly language,
object code, or machine code) to create an executable program.

However, there are many different types of compilers. If the compiled
program can run on a computer whose CPU or operating system is different
from the one on which the compiler runs, the compiler is a
cross-compiler. A bootstrap compiler is written in the language that it
intends to compile. A program that translates from a low-level language
to a higher level one is a decompiler. A program that translates between
high-level languages is usually called a source-to-source compiler or
transpiler. A language rewriter is usually a program that translates the
form of expressions without a change of language. The term
compiler-compiler refers to tools used to create parsers that perform
syntax analysis.

A compiler is likely to perform many or all of the following operations:
preprocessing, lexical analysis, parsing, semantic analysis
(syntax-directed translation), conversion of input programs to an
intermediate representation, code optimization and code generation.
Compilers implement these operations in phases that promote efficient
design and correct transformations of source input to target output.
Program faults caused by incorrect compiler behavior can be very
difficult to track down and work around; therefore, compiler
implementers invest significant effort to ensure compiler correctness.

![](./images/C/15007906.png?width=698)

## Component

Software component. An abstraction that refers to a part of a software
system.

## Component Test

Test of a software component in isolation from its *system*.

## Cone of Uncertainty

Early in a project, specific details of the nature of the software to be
built, details of specific requirements, details of the solution,
project plan, staffing, and other project variables are unclear. The
variability in these factors contributes variability to project
estimates --- an accurate estimate of a variable phenomenon must include
the variability in the phenomenon itself. As these sources of
variabiility are further investigated and pinned down, the variability
in the project diminishes, and so the variability in the project
estimatescan also diminish. This phenomenon is known as the "Cone of
Uncertainty" which is illustrated in the following figure. As the figure
suggests, significant narrowing of the Cone occur during the first
20-30% of the total calendar time for the project.\
![](./images/C/15007912.png?width=448)

## Cone of Uncertainty

The amount of possible error in a software project estimate, which is
very large in the early stages of a project and shrinks dramatically as
the project nears completion.

## Configuration Item

CI

A description of an artifact or group of artifacts that is identified by
the configuration management plan. Configuration items are used to apply
CM policies and processes to organizational and project artifacts.

## Configuration Management

CM

Activities and tasks related to defining, documenting, releasing, and
maintaining the integrity of information in or about a system.

## Configuration Test

Test of a software system to determine behavior with different
configurations, platforms, environments, etc.

## Construction

Software construction. Implementing a *design* to create a software
system using technology. Also denotes the construction CKA.
See *CxStand\_Construction* for more information.

## Construction Environment

See *development environment*.

## Construction Lead

Responsible for construction, integration, product builds, technology
issues, development environment, and deployment issues.

## Construction Standard

A standard describing detailed conventions, and styles that developers
should follow when creating a system's source code or related
construction artifacts. *Coding Standard* is a common synonym.

## Construction Test Environment

See *local test environment*.

## Construction Testing

A best practice that calls for several types of testing to be performed
during the *construction* of a component, by the engineer(s) creating
it, to verify additions or modifications both at the component level and
in the context of the system.

## Construx Knowledge Area

CKA

The basis for organizing CxOne and other Construx software engineering
resources. Based on the *SWEBOK* organization of software engineering.\
Sometimes referred to as 'CxOne Knowledge Areas'.

## Continuous Deployment

Continuous deployment aims to reduce the time elapsed between writing a
line of code and making that code available to users in production. To
achieve continuous deployment, the team relies on infrastructure that
automates and instruments the various steps leading up to deployment, so
that after each integration successfully meeting these release criteria,
the live application is updated with new code.

## continuous integration

In software engineering, continuous integration (CI) is the practice of
merging all developer working copies to a shared mainline several times
a day. Grady Booch first named and proposed CI in his 1991 method,
although he did not advocate integrating several times a day. Extreme
programming (XP) adopted the concept of CI and did advocate integrating
more than once per day -- perhaps as many as tens of times per day.

## Continuous Integration

Continuous Integration is the practice of merging code changes into a
shared repository several times a day in order to release a product
version at any moment. This requires an integration procedure which is
reproducible and automated.

## Control Plane

In routing, the control plane is the part of the router architecture
that is concerned with drawing the network topology, or the information
in a (possibly augmented) routing table that defines what to do with
incoming packets. Control plane functions, such as participating in
routing protocols, run in the architectural control element. In most
cases, the routing table contains a list of destination addresses and
the outgoing interface(s) associated with them. Control plane logic also
can define certain packets to be discarded, as well as preferential
treatment of certain packets for which a high quality of service is
defined by such mechanisms as differentiated services.

Depending on the specific router implementation, there may be a separate
forwarding information base that is populated (i.e., loaded) by the
control plane, but used by the forwarding plane to look up packets, at
very high speed, and decide how to handle them.\
![](./images/C/15007918.png?width=480)

## Copyleft

Copyleft (a play on the word copyright) is the practice of offering
people the right to freely distribute copies and modified versions of a
work with the stipulation that the same rights be preserved in
derivative works down the line. Copyleft software licenses are
considered protective or reciprocal, as contrasted with permissive free
software licenses.

Copyleft is a form of licensing, and can be used to maintain copyright
conditions for works ranging from computer software, to documents, to
art, to scientific discoveries and instruments in medicine. In general,
copyright law is used by an author to prohibit recipients from
reproducing, adapting, or distributing copies of their work. In
contrast, under copyleft, an author must give every person who receives
a copy of the work permission to reproduce, adapt, or distribute it,
with the accompanying requirement that any resulting copies or
adaptations are also bound by the same licensing agreement.

Copyleft licenses for software require that information necessary for
reproducing and modifying the work must be made available to recipients
of the binaries. The source code files will usually contain a copy of
the license terms and acknowledge the authors.

Copyleft type licenses are a novel use of existing copyright law to
ensure a work remains freely available. The GNU General Public License
(GPL), originally written by Richard Stallman, was the first software
copyleft license to see extensive use, and continues to dominate in that
area. Creative Commons, a non-profit organization founded by Lawrence
Lessig, provides a similar license provision condition called
share-alike.

![](./images/C/15007924.png?width=79)

## Corrective Activity Management

CAM

The management of identified c*hange requests*, *defects*, *risks*,
and *issues*.\
CAM is a CxOne abstraction allowing reuse of materials and processes for
the management of project work not explicitly identified in the project
plan.

## CoS

Class of Service

Class of service is a parameter used in data and voice protocols to
differentiate the types of payloads contained in the packet being
transmitted. The objective of such differentiation is generally
associated with assigning priorities to the data payload or access
levels to the telephone call.

## COTS

Commercial off-the-shelf

Commercial off-the-shelf or commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS)
is a term used to describe the purchase of packaged solutions which are
then adapted to satisfy the needs of the purchasing organization, rather
than the commissioning of custom-made, or bespoke, solutions. A related
term, Mil-COTS, refers to COTS products for use by the U.S. military.

In the context of the U.S. government, the Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR) has defined "COTS" as a formal term for commercial
items, including services, available in the commercial marketplace that
can be bought and used under government contract. For example, Microsoft
is a COTS software provider. Goods and construction materials may
qualify as COTS but bulk cargo does not. Services associated with the
commercial items may also qualify as COTS, including installation
services, training services, and cloud services.

COTS purchases are alternatives to custom software or one-off
developments -- government-funded developments or otherwise.

Although COTS products can be used out of the box, in practice the COTS
product must be configured to achieve the needs of the business and
integrated to existing organizational systems. Extending the
functionality of COTS products via custom development is also an option,
however this decision should be carefully considered due to the long
term support and maintenance implications. Such customized functionality
is not supported by the COTS vendor, so brings its own sets of issues
when upgrading the COTS product.

## CPE

Customer Premise Equipment

Customer-premises equipment or customer-provided equipment (CPE) is any
terminal and associated equipment located at a subscriber's premises and
connected with a carrier's telecommunication circuit at the demarcation
point\
![](./images/C/15007930.png?width=481)

## CPM

critical path method

The critical path method (CPM), or critical path analysis (CPA), is an
algorithm for scheduling a set of project activities.\[1\] It is
commonly used in conjunction with the program evaluation and review
technique (PERT).

## CPS

Carrier Pre-Select

Carrier preselect is a term relating to the telecommunications industry.
It is a method of routing calls for least-cost routing (LCR) without the
need for programming of PBX telephone system.

This is the process whereby a telephone subscriber whose telephone line
is maintained by one company, usually a former monopoly provider
(e.g. BT), can choose to have some of their calls automatically routed
across a different telephone company's network (e.g. Talk Talk) without
needing to enter a special code or special equipment.

## CRC

cyclic redundancy check

A cyclic redundancy check (CRC) is an error-detecting code commonly used
in digital networks and storage devices to detect accidental changes to
raw data. Blocks of data entering these systems get a short check value
attached, based on the remainder of a polynomial division of their
contents. On retrieval, the calculation is repeated and, in the event
the check values do not match, corrective action can be taken against
data corruption. CRCs can be used for error correction (see bitfilters).

CRCs are so called because the check (data verification) value is a
redundancy (it expands the message without adding information) and the
algorithm is based on cyclic codes. CRCs are popular because they are
simple to implement in binary hardware, easy to analyze mathematically,
and particularly good at detecting common errors caused by noise in
transmission channels. Because the check value has a fixed length, the
function that generates it is occasionally used as a hash function.

## CRC Cards

Class Responsibility Collaborator Cards

CRC Cards are an object oriented design technique teams can use to
discuss what a class should know and do and what other classes it
interacts with.

CRC cards are usually created from index cards. Members of a
brainstorming session will write up one CRC card for each relevant
class/object of their design. The card is partitioned into three areas:

-   On top of the card, the class name

-   On the left, the responsibilities of the class\
    On the right, collaborators (other classes) with which this class
    interacts to fulfill its responsibilities

## CSCF

Call Session Control Function

Several roles of SIP servers or proxies, collectively called Call
Session Control Function (CSCF), are used to process SIP signaling
packets in the IMS.

-   A Proxy-CSCF (P-CSCF) is a SIP proxy that is the first point of
    contact for the IMS terminal. It can be located either in the
    visited network (in full IMS networks) or in the home network (when
    the visited network is not IMS compliant yet). Some networks may use
    a Session Border Controller (SBC) for this function. The P-CSCF is
    at its core a specialized SBC for the User--network interface which
    not only protects the network, but also the IMS terminal. The use of
    an additional SBC between the IMS terminal and the P-CSCF is
    unnecessary and infeasible due to the signaling being encrypted on
    this leg. The terminal discovers its P-CSCF with either DHCP, or it
    may be configured (e.g. during initial provisioning or via a 3GPP
    IMS Management Object (MO)) or in the ISIM or assigned in the PDP
    Context (in General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)).

-   An Interrogating-CSCF (I-CSCF) is another SIP function located at
    the edge of an administrative domain. Its IP address is published in
    the Domain Name System (DNS) of the domain (using NAPTR and SRV type
    of DNS records), so that remote servers can find it, and use it as a
    forwarding point (e.g., registering) for SIP packets to this domain.

-   A Serving-CSCF (S-CSCF) is the central node of the signaling plane.
    It is a SIP server, but performs session control too. It is always
    located in the home network. It uses Diameter Cx and Dx interfaces
    to the HSS to download user profiles and upload user-to-S-CSCF
    associations (the user profile is only cached locally for processing
    reasons and is not changed). All necessary subscriber profile
    information is loaded from the HSS.

    ![](./images/C/56360965)

## csh

The C shell (csh or the improved version, tcsh) is a Unix shell created
by Bill Joy while he was a graduate student at University of California,
Berkeley in the late 1970s. It has been widely distributed, beginning
with the 2BSD release of the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) that
Joy began distributing in 1978. Other early contributors to the ideas or
the code were Michael Ubell, Eric Allman, Mike O'Brien and Jim Kulp.

The C shell is a command processor typically run in a text window,
allowing the user to type commands. The C shell can also read commands
from a file, called a script. Like all Unix shells, it supports filename
wildcarding, piping, here documents, command substitution, variables and
control structures for condition-testing and iteration. What
differentiated the C shell from others, especially in the 1980s, were
its interactive features and overall style. Its new features made it
easier and faster to use. The overall style of the language looked more
like C and was seen as more readable.

## CSI

Customer Site Interconnect

In telecommunications, interconnection is the physical linking of a
carrier's network with equipment or facilities not belonging to that
network. The term may refer to a connection between a carrier's
facilities and the equipment belonging to its customer, or to a
connection between two (or more) carriers.\
![](./images/C/15007936.png?width=481)

## CSMA

Carrier-sense multiple access

Carrier-sense multiple access (CSMA) is a media access control (MAC)
protocol in which a node verifies the absence of other traffic before
transmitting on a shared transmission medium, such as an electrical bus
or a band of the electromagnetic spectrum.

A transmitter attempts to determine whether another transmission is in
progress before initiating a transmission using a carrier-sense
mechanism. That is, it tries to detect the presence of a carrier signal
from another node before attempting to transmit. If a carrier is sensed,
the node waits for the transmission in progress to end before initiating
its own transmission. Using CSMA, multiple nodes may, in turn, send and
receive on the same medium. Transmissions by one node are generally
received by all other nodes connected to the medium.

Variations on basic CSMA include addition of collision-avoidance,
collision-detection and collision-resolution techniques.

## CSS

Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) is a style sheet language used for
describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language
like HTML.\[1\] CSS is a cornerstone technology of the World Wide Web,
alongside HTML and JavaScript.

CSS is designed to enable the separation of presentation and content,
including layout, colors, and fonts. This separation can improve content
accessibility, provide more flexibility and control in the specification
of presentation characteristics, enable multiple web pages to share
formatting by specifying the relevant CSS in a separate .css file, and
reduce complexity and repetition in the structural content.

Separation of formatting and content also makes it feasible to present
the same markup page in different styles for different rendering
methods, such as on-screen, in print, by voice (via speech-based browser
or screen reader), and on Braille-based tactile devices. CSS also has
rules for alternate formatting if the content is accessed on a mobile
device.

The name cascading comes from the specified priority scheme to determine
which style rule applies if more than one rule matches a particular
element. This cascading priority scheme is predictable.

The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C). Internet media type (MIME type) text/css is registered for use
with CSS by RFC 2318 (March 1998). The W3C operates a free CSS
validation service for CSS documents.

In addition to HTML, other markup languages support the use of CSS,
including XHTML, plain XML, SVG, and XUL

## C-Tag

Subscriber VLAN Tag

The IEEE standard 802.1ad provides for double-tagging by service
providers so that they can use VLANs allocated internally together with
traffic already tagged as VLANs by service provider customers.

In this double tagging, the C-Tag (customer tag) is the inner tag set by
the customer. The S-Tag is the outer tag next to the MAC address.\
![](./images/C/15007942.png?width=485)

![](./images/C/15007948.png?width=416)

## Customer Development

Customer development is a four-step framework that provides a way to use
a scientific approach to validate assumptions about your product and
business. (learn more)

## CVSD

Continuously variable slope delta modulation

Continuously variable slope delta modulation (CVSD or CVSDM) is a voice
coding method. It is a delta modulation with variable step size (i.e.,
special case of adaptive delta modulation), first proposed by Greefkes
and Riemens in 1970.

CVSD encodes at 1 bit per sample, so that audio sampled at 16 kHz is
encoded at 16 kbit/s.

The encoder maintains a reference sample and a step size. Each input
sample is compared to the reference sample. If the input sample is
larger, the encoder emits a 1 bit and adds the step size to the
reference sample. If the input sample is smaller, the encoder emits a 0
bit and subtracts the step size from the reference sample. The encoder
also keeps the previous N bits of output (N = 3 or N = 4 are very
common) to determine adjustments to the step size; if the previous N
bits are all 1s or 0s, the step size is increased. Otherwise, the step
size is decreased (usually in an exponential manner, with
{`\displaystyle `{=tex}`\tau `{=tex}} `\tau `{=tex}being in the range of
5 ms). The step size is adjusted for every input sample processed.

To allow for bit errors to fade out and to allow (re)synchronization to
an ongoing bitstream, the output register (which keeps the reference
sample) is normally realized as a leaky integrator with a time constant
( {`\displaystyle `{=tex}`\tau `{=tex}} `\tau `{=tex}) of about 1 ms.

The decoder reverses this process, starting with the reference sample,
and adding or subtracting the step size according to the bit stream. The
sequence of adjusted reference samples are the reconstructed waveform,
and the step size is adjusted according to the same all-1s-or-0s logic
as in the encoder.

Adaptation of step size allows one to avoid slope overload (step of
quantization increases when the signal rapidly changes) and decreases
granular noise when the signal is constant (decrease of step of
quantisation).

CVSD is sometimes called a compromise between simplicity, low bitrate,
and quality. Common bitrates are 9.6--128 kbit/s.

Like other delta-modulation techniques, the output of the decoder does
not exactly match the original input to the encoder.
