# D

## DAD

Disciplined agile delivery (DAD) is a process decision framework that
enables simplified process decisions around incremental and iterative
solution delivery. DAD builds on the many practices espoused by
advocates of agile software development, including Scrum, agile
modeling, lean software development, and others.

The primary reference for disciplined agile delivery is the book of same
name, written by Scott Ambler and Mark Lines.

In particular, DAD has been identified as a means of moving beyond
Scrum. According to Cutter Senior Consultant Bhuvan Unhelkar, "The DAD
framework provides a carefully constructed mechanism that not only
streamlines IT work, but more importantly, enables scaling." Paul Gorans
and Philippe Kruchten call for more discipline in implementation of
agile approaches and indicate that DAD, as an example framework, is \"a
hybrid agile approach to enterprise IT solution delivery that provides a
solid foundation from which to scale.

##  Daily Meeting

The daily meeting is one of the most commonly practiced Agile techniques
and presents opportunity for a team to get together on a regular basis
to coordinate their activities.

##  Daily Scrum

Stand-up team meeting. A plan, do, review daily session.

##  Dark Fibre

A dark fibre or unlit fibre is an unused optical fibre, available for
use in fibre-optic communication.

The term dark fibre was originally used when referring to the potential
network capacity of telecommunication infrastructure, but now also
refers to the increasingly common practice of leasing fibre optic cables
from a network service provider, or, generally, to the fibre
installations not owned or controlled by traditional carriers. In common
vernacular, dark fibre may sometimes still be called "dark" if it has
been lit by a fibre lessee and not the cable's owner.

A dark fibre network or simply dark network is a privately operated
optical fiber network that is run directly by its operator over dark
fibre leased or purchased from another supplier. This is in contrast to
purchasing bandwidth or leased line capacity on an existing network.
Dark fibre networks may be used for private networking, or as Internet
access or infrastructure.

##  DASS1

Digital Access Signalling System 1 (DASS1) is a proprietary protocol
defined by British Telecom to provide ISDN services in the United
Kingdom. It is now obsolete, having been replaced by DASS2. This too
will become obsolete over the coming years as Q.931, a European
standard, becomes widely adopted in the EU.

##  DASS2

Digital Access Signalling System 2 (DASS2) is an obsolescent protocol
defined by British Telecom for digital links to PSTN based on ISDN.
Although still available on request, it has been superseded by ETS 300
102 ("EuroISDN").

DASS2 is an improved version over DASS1, based on experiences with
DPNSS.

In the UK, the ISDN concept was first introduced to customers by BT with
their DASS2 connections. DASS2 (Digital Access Signalling System) is a
BT-designed signalling standard, and was introduced before the Q.931
standard was finalised by the international community. British Telecom
used the term ISDN when describing their DASS2 lines.

DASS2 lines are provided to customers on a 2Mbit/s link and can handle
30 simultaneous calls (64kbit/s each). DASS2 is still offered by BT and
other UK carriers. Q.931 is the name of the CCITT document that
describes the agreed signalling format for International ISDN. CCITT had
previously been known as International Telegraph and Telephone
Consultative Committee. The organisation set out the internationally
agreed standards for telecommunications, and subsequently evolved into
the ITU. In the United Kingdom, the Q.931-based protocol is ETS 300 102
(also known as EuroISDN). This is a very close implementation of the
original CCITT specification. It is a 2Mbit/s service as with DASS2, but
the feature capability is far greater and has negated the problems
associated with DASS2, including echo problems and circuit spikes. In
the UK, both DASS 2 and EuroISDN (ETS 300 102) lines are available to
customers with EuroISDN as the preferred signalling type. Customers
normally choose the desired signalling system, as this will be dictated
by their CPE (Customer Premises Equipment), usually a PABX.

Most modern PABXs can handle many different types of signalling system,
however the trend seems to be away from the DASS2 (which is no longer
being developed by BT and has been known to deny problems with their
DASS2 circuits), and towards the internationally recognised Q.931
standard, which is utilised by many country's telephony service
providers.

The CCITT specify the standards for the layers 1, 2 and 3 signalling
messages. The layer 3 messages are the messages which actually control
the call setup, teardown, and routing.

The layer 3 messages or call control messages are the minimum messages
that must be understood by the interfacing equipment. Individual service
providers may publish their own documentation which details further
messages that will be transported in addition to Q.931 messages. There
are a number of additional European documents that cover supplementary
services. These cover features that may be instigated by exchanges via
the ISDN and require a higher degree of layer 3 implementation.

##  data modeling

the analysis of data objects that are used in a business or other
context and the identification of the relationships among these data
objects.

##  Data Plane

See User Plane

##  Database Lead

Projects with large and/or critical database components may assign
a *database lead* responsible for *design* and *construction* issues
relating to the database portions of the system.

##  Date Warehouse

In computing, a data warehouse (DW or DWH), also known as an enterprise
data warehouse (EDW), is a system used for reporting and data analysis,
and is considered a core component of business intelligence. DWs are
central repositories of integrated data from one or more disparate
sources. They store current and historical data in one single place7that
are used for creating analytical reports for workers throughout the
enterprise.

The data stored in the warehouse is uploaded from the operational
systems (such as marketing or sales). The data may pass through an
operational data store and may require data cleansing for additional
operations to ensure data quality before it is used in the DW for
reporting.

![](./images/D/15007957.png?width=480)\
![](./images/D/15007965.png?width=434)

##  DCE

Data Circuit-terminating Equipment

data circuit-terminating equipment(DCE) is a device that sits between
the data terminal equipment (DTE) and a data transmission circuit. It is
also called data communication(s) equipment and data carrier equipment.
Usually, the DTE device is the terminal (or computer), and the DCE is a
modem.\
![](./images/D/15007971.png?width=480)

##  DDK

driver development kit

a set of programs and related files that are used to develop a new
software or hardware driver or to update an existing legacy application
driver for an operating system.

##  DDOS

Distributed Denial of Service

In computing, a denial-of-service attack (DoS attack) is a cyber-attack
in which the perpetrator seeks to make a machine or network resource
unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely
disrupting services of a host connected to the Internet. Denial of
service is typically accomplished by flooding the targeted machine or
resource with superfluous requests in an attempt to overload systems and
prevent some or all legitimate requests from being fulfilled.\[1\]

In a distributed denial-of-service attack (DDoS attack), the incoming
traffic flooding the victim originates from many different sources. This
effectively makes it impossible to stop the attack simply by blocking a
single source.

A DoS or DDoS attack is analogous to a group of people crowding the
entry door of a shop, making it hard for legitimate customers to enter,
disrupting trade.

![](./images/D/15007977.png?width=442)

##  Decomposition Estimation

See *bottom-up estimation*. Refers specifically to creating estimates
for the decomposed parts of a system.

##  Defect

A failure of a *system* or *process* to perform as specified, or
expected.\
A behavior or representation that does not conform to project plans or
goals. Deviation from the expected or defined representation of
information in an *artifact*. Nonconformance of a *system*, *process*,
or *artifact* to a standard. Defects are a type of *corrective activity
management* item.

##  Defect Management

The representation of identified defects and the planning, tracking, and
control related to ensuring all identified defects are managed. Part of
both *quality* and *corrective activity management*.

##  Defect Report

A request to modify an artifact due to lack of conformance to a
standard, requirement, project need, or a failure/error.

##  Definition of Done

The definition of done is an agreed upon list of the activities deemed
necessary to get a product increment, usually represented by a user
story, to a done state by the end of a sprint.

##  Definition of Ready

involves creating clear criteria that a user story must meet before
being accepted into an upcoming iteration. This is typically based on
the INVEST matrix.

##  Deliverable

Any artifact or set of artifacts that are delivered as output from
a *project* or other well defined set of work.

##  Deplhi

Object Pascal refers to a branch of object-oriented derivatives of
Pascal, mostly known as the primary programming language of Delphi.

##  Deployment

The process and/or act of installing and readying a software system for
use, including integration and customization that is specific to a
particular site.

##  Deployment Lead

Projects with complex deployment needs may assign an individual to plan
and oversee execution of *deployment* and possibly operational and
maintenance related issues.

##  Deployment Plan

A plan specifying the method of releasing a system. Includes items like
target platforms, configuration to release, etc.

##  DER

Distinguished Encoding Rules

ER (Distinguished Encoding Rules) is a restricted variant of
BER for producing unequivocal transfer syntax for data structures
described by ASN.1. Like CER, DER encodings are valid BER encodings. DER
is the same thing as BER with all but one sender's options removed.

DER is a subset of BER providing for exactly one way to encode an ASN.1
value. DER is intended for situations when a unique encoding is needed,
such as in cryptography, and ensures that a data structure that needs to
be digitally signed produces a unique serialized representation. DER can
be considered a canonical form of BER. For example, in BER
a Boolean value of true can be encoded as any of 255 non-zero byte
values, while in DER there is one way to encode a Boolean value of true.

The most significant DER encoding constraints are:

1.  Length encoding must use the definite form

    1.  Additionally, the shortest possible length encoding must be used

2.  Bitstring, octetstring, and restricted character strings must use
    the primitive encoding

3.  Elements of a Set are encoded in sorted order, based on their tag
    value\
    DER is widely used for digital certificates such as X.509.

##  DES

Data Encryption Standard

The Data Encryption Standard is a symmetric-key algorithm for the
encryption of electronic data. Although insecure, it was highly
influential in the advancement of modern cryptography.

Developed in the early 1970s at IBM and based on an earlier design by
Horst Feistel, the algorithm was submitted to the National Bureau of
Standards (NBS) following the agency's invitation to propose a candidate
for the protection of sensitive, unclassified electronic government
data. In 1976, after consultation with the National Security Agency
(NSA), the NBS eventually selected a slightly modified version
(strengthened against differential cryptanalysis, but weakened against
brute-force attacks), which was published as an official Federal
Information Processing Standard (FIPS) for the United States in 1977.

The publication of an NSA-approved encryption standard simultaneously
resulted in its quick international adoption and widespread academic
scrutiny. Controversies arose out of classified design elements, a
relatively short key length of the symmetric-key block cipher design,
and the involvement of the NSA, nourishing suspicions about a backdoor.
Today it is known that the S-boxes that had raised those suspicions were
in fact designed by the NSA to actually remove a backdoor they secretly
knew (differential cryptanalysis). However, the NSA also ensured that
the key size was drastically reduced such that they could break it by
brute force attack. The intense academic scrutiny the algorithm received
over time led to the modern understanding of block ciphers and their
cryptanalysis.

DES is insecure. This is mainly due to the 56-bit key size being too
small. In January 1999, distributed.net and the Electronic Frontier
Foundation collaborated to publicly break a DES key in 22 hours and 15
minutes (see chronology). There are also some analytical results which
demonstrate theoretical weaknesses in the cipher, although they are
infeasible to mount in practice. The algorithm is believed to be
practically secure in the form of Triple DES, although there are
theoretical attacks. This cipher has been superseded by the Advanced
Encryption Standard (AES). Furthermore, DES has been withdrawn as a
standard by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.\
![](./images/D/15007983.png?width=375)

##  Design

Software design. The creation of abstracted models and plans for
implementing requirements in software. Also denotes the design CKA.
See *CxStand\_Design* for more information.

##  Design Lead

Responsible for the system architecture and overseeing design
activities.

##  Design Pattern

In software engineering, a software design pattern is a general,
reusable solution to a commonly occurring problem within a given context
in software design. It is not a finished design that can be transformed
directly into source or machine code. It is a description or template
for how to solve a problem that can be used in many different
situations. Design patterns are formalized best practices that the
programmer can use to solve common problems when designing an
application or system.

Object-oriented design patterns typically show relationships and
interactions between classes or objects, without specifying the final
application classes or objects that are involved. Patterns that imply
mutable state may be unsuited for functional programming languages, some
patterns can be rendered unnecessary in languages that have built-in
support for solving the problem they are trying to solve, and
object-oriented patterns are not necessarily suitable for
non-object-oriented languages.

Design patterns may be viewed as a structured approach to computer
programming intermediate between the levels of a programming paradigm
and a concrete algorithm.

##  Design to Tools

The content of a system is determined by what is directly supported by
existing software tools

##  Desk Check

An *informal* *review* in which the *author* asks one or more people to
read an *artifact* with the intent of finding *defects*.

##  Detailed Design

Commonly used term that captures parts of *high level design* and *low
level design*. See *CxStand\_Design* for more information.

##  Detailed Schedule

Fine grain project schedule that includes tasks, estimated effort,
assigned resources, dependencies, etc. Usually created in a bottom-up
fashion from a *work plan*. Normally implemented as a sliding window
that covers a *project's headlights*. Compare to *business schedule*.

##  Developer

Synonym for software engineer, usually used when referring to design and
construction activities.

##  Developer Integration Test

DIT

*Integration* *test* performed by a developer in the *system
test* *environment* after a *project build* as part of releasing
functionality.

##  development environment

the set of processes and programming tools used to create the program or
software product.

##  Development Environment

DE

The hardware and software environment that *construction* work occurs
in.

##  development process

a set of tasks performed for a given purpose in a software development
project.

##  DevOps

development/operations

bridges the gap between agile teams and operational delivery to
production.

##  DHCP

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network management
protocol used on UDP/IP networks whereby a DHCP server dynamically
assigns an IP address and other network configuration parameters to each
device on a network so they can communicate with other IP networks. A
DHCP server enables computers to request IP addresses and networking
parameters automatically from the Internet service provider (ISP),
reducing the need for a network administrator or a user to manually
assign IP addresses to all network devices.

##  Diagram

A graphical representation of a system, process, or other information.

##  DLE

Digital Local Exchange

![](./images/D/15007989.png?width=481)

![](./images/D/15007995.png?width=495)

##  DLP

Data Link Protocol

Protocols that can be utilized at the Data Link layer of the OSI model.
These protocols include token ring, FDDI, and Ethernet. Ethernet Data
Link protocols are broken out into addressing and framing standards

##  DMZ

Demilitarized Zone

In computer security, a DMZ or demilitarized zone (sometimes referred to
as a perimeter network) is a physical or logical subnetwork that
contains and exposes an organization's external-facing services to an
untrusted network, usually a larger network such as the Internet. The
purpose of a DMZ is to add an additional layer of security to an
organization's local area network (LAN): an external network node can
access only what is exposed in the DMZ, while the rest of the
organization's network is firewalled. The DMZ functions as a small,
isolated network positioned between the Internet and the private network
and, if its design is effective, allows the organization extra time to
detect and address breaches before they would further penetrate into the
internal networks.\
![](./images/D/15008001.png?width=344)

##  DN

Directory Number

A telephone number is a sequence of digits assigned to a fixed-line
telephone subscriber station connected to a telephone line or to a
wireless electronic telephony device, such as a radio telephone or a
mobile telephone, or to other devices for data transmission via the
public switched telephone network (PSTN) or other private networks.

A telephone number serves as an address for switching telephone calls
using a system of destination code routing. Telephone numbers are
entered or dialed by a calling party on the originating telephone set,
which transmits the sequence of digits in the process of signaling to a
telephone exchange. The exchange completes the call either to another
locally connected subscriber or via the PSTN to the called party.
Telephone numbers are assigned within the framework of a national or
regional telephone numbering plan to subscribers by telephone service
operators, which may be commercial entities, state-controlled
administrations, or other telecommunication industry associations.

##  DNB

Dun and Bradstreet Business File

##  DNS

Domain Name System

The Domain Name System (DNS) is a hierarchical decentralized naming
system for computers, services, or other resources connected to the
Internet or a private network. It associates various information with
domain names assigned to each of the participating entities. Most
prominently, it translates more readily memorized domain names to the
numerical IP addresses needed for locating and identifying computer
services and devices with the underlying network protocols. By providing
a worldwide, distributed directory service, the Domain Name System is an
essential component of the functionality on the Internet, that has been
in use since 1985.

##  DNS - A

IpV4 A Record

An A record maps a domain name to the IP address (IPv4) of the computer
hosting the domain. Simply put, an A record is used to find the IP
address of a computer connected to the internet from a name.

The A in A record stands for Address. Whenever you visit a web site,
send an email, connect to Twitter or Facebook or do almost anything on
the Internet, the address you enter is a series of words connected with
dots.

##  DNS - AAAA

IPv6 DNS record

Returns a 128-bit IPv6 address, most commonly used to map hostnames to
an IP address of the host

##  DNS - CNAME

Canonical name record

Alias of one name to another: the DNS lookup will continue by retrying
the lookup with the new name.

##  DNS - DNAME

Alias for a name and all its subnames, unlike CNAME, which is an alias
for only the exact name. Like a CNAME record, the DNS lookup will
continue by retrying the lookup with the new name.

##  DNS - SRV

Service locator

Generalized service location record, used for newer protocols instead of
creating protocol-specific records such as MX.

##  DNS - TXT

Txt Record

Originally for arbitrary human-readable text in a DNS record. Since the
early 1990s, however, this record more often carries machine-readable
data, such as specified by RFC 1464, opportunistic encryption, Sender
Policy Framework, DKIM, DMARC, DNS-SD, etc.

##  DNS Spoofing

DNS spoofing, also referred to as DNS cache poisoning, is a form of
computer security hacking in which corrupt Domain Name System data is
introduced into the DNS resolver's cache, causing the name server to
return an incorrect result record, e.g. an IP address. This results in
traffic being diverted to the attacker's computer (or any other
computer).

##  Docker

Docker is a collection of interoperating software-as-a-service and
platform-as-a-service offerings that employ operating-system-level
virtualization to cultivate development and delivery of software inside
standardized software packages called containers.\[The software that
hosts the containers is called Docker Engine

##  Document Collaboration

Document and file collaboration are the tools or systems set up to help
multiple people work together on a single document or file to achieve a
single final version. Normally, this is software that allows teams to
work on a single document, such as a Word document, at the same time
from different computer terminals or mobile devices. Hence, document or
file collaboration today is a system allowing people to collaborate
across different locations using an Internet, or "cloud", enabled
approach such as for Wikis such as Wikipedia

Tools such as Confluence & SharePoint can be used for Document
Collaboration

##  Domain Name

A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of
administrative autonomy, authority or control within the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name
System (DNS). Any name registered in the DNS is a domain name. Domain
names are used in various networking contexts and for
application-specific naming and addressing purposes. In general, a
domain name represents an Internet Protocol (IP) resource, such as a
personal computer used to access the Internet, a server computer hosting
a web site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via
the Internet. In 2017, 330.6 million domain names had been registered.

Domain names are organized in subordinate levels (subdomains) of the DNS
root domain, which is nameless. The first-level set of domain names are
the top-level domains (TLDs), including the generic top-level domains
(gTLDs), such as the prominent domains com, info, net, edu, and org, and
the country code top-level domains (ccTLDs). Below these top-level
domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain
names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to
connect local area networks to the Internet, create other publicly
accessible Internet resources or run web sites.

The registration of these domain names is usually administered by domain
name registrars who sell their services to the public.

A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) is a domain name that is completely
specified with all labels in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no parts
omitted. Labels in the Domain Name System are case-insensitive, and may
therefore be written in any desired capitalization method, but most
commonly domain names are written in lowercase in technical contexts.\
![](./images/D/15008007.png?width=350)

Domain name space\
Today, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN)
manages the top-level development and architecture of the Internet
domain name space. It authorizes domain name registrars, through which
domain names may be registered and reassigned.

The hierarchical domain name system, organized into zones, each served
by domain name servers.\
The domain name space consists of a tree of domain names. Each node in
the tree holds information associated with the domain name. The tree
sub-divides into zones beginning at the DNS root zone.\
![](./images/D/15008013.png?width=481)

##  Dot1Q

IEEE 802.1Q, often referred to as Dot1q

IEEE 802.1Q, often referred to as Dot1q, is the networking standard that
supports virtual LANs (VLANs) on an IEEE 802.3 Ethernet network. The
standard defines a system of VLAN tagging for Ethernet frames and the
accompanying procedures to be used by bridges and switches in handling
such frames. The standard also contains provisions for a
quality-of-service prioritization scheme commonly known as IEEE 802.1p
and defines the Generic Attribute Registration Protocol.

Portions of the network which are VLAN-aware (i.e., IEEE 802.1Q
conformant) can include VLAN tags. When a frame enters the VLAN-aware
portion of the network, a tag is added to represent the VLAN
membership.\[a\] Each frame must be distinguishable as being within
exactly one VLAN. A frame in the VLAN-aware portion of the network that
does not contain a VLAN tag is assumed to be flowing on the native VLAN.

##  Dot1Q trunking

A simple view for dot1q (802.1q) trunking:\
For ease of understanding the Dot1q (802.1q) trunking between switches
can be seen as pipes (VLANs) inside a main pipe (Trunk) to connect VLANs
that are being distributed on different switches.\
![](./images/D/15008019.png?width=448)\
So if that makes sense then a better representation is that packets are
tagged as they go into the trunk link, like below.\
The packets are tagged with the VLAN ID, that the port they are received
on is configured with. When they are received on the other end they are
then sent to the appropriate VLAN ports.\
![](./images/D/15008025.png?width=448)\
So how does the switch know which ports to send the packet to, the
switches are assigned with the VLAN number.\
![](./images/D/15008031.png?width=477)

##  Downstream

In a telecommunications network or computer network, downstream refers
to data sent from a network service provider to a customer.

Although the best dial-up modems are called 56 kbit/s modems, downstream
speeds can be limited to a few tens of kilobits per second with even
lower upstream speeds. Asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL) and
cable modems, two popular Internet access technologies, greatly improved
downstream speeds reaching several Mbit/s. Mobile broadband and
satellite Internet access providers also often have lower upstream
speeds than downstream.

One process sending data primarily in the downstream direction is
downloading. However, the overall download speed depends on the
downstream speed of the user, the upstream speed of the server, and the
network between them.

In the client--server model, downstream can refer to the direction from
the server to the client.

##  Downstream

Used to refer to project activities and artifacts that occur later in a
project lifecycle, often after significant construction has begun.
Includes coding, low level design, testing, deployment, and system use.
See *upstream*.

##  DP

Distribution Point

In LLU - The green termination box which is situated between the
exchange and the customer premise, utilized as a junction point.\
In FTTC - A piece of equipment that separates out a fibre into smaller
pieces

![](./images/D/15008037.png?width=483)

##  DPI

Deep Packet Inspection

Deep packet inspection (DPI) is a type of data processing that inspects
in detail the data being sent over a computer network, and usually takes
action by blocking, re-routing, or logging it accordingly. Deep packet
inspection is often used to ensure that data is in the correct format,
to check for malicious code, eavesdropping and internet censorship\[1\]
among other purposes. There are multiple headers for IP packets; network
equipment only needs to use the first of these (the IP header) for
normal operation, but use of the second header (such as TCP or UDP) is
normally considered to be shallow packet inspection (usually called
stateful packet inspection) despite this definition.\[2\]

There are multiple ways to acquire packets for deep packet inspection.
Using port mirroring (sometimes called Span Port) is a very common way,
as well as an optical splitter.

Deep Packet Inspection (and filtering) enables advanced network
management, user service, and security functions as well as internet
data mining, eavesdropping, and internet censorship. Although DPI has
been used for Internet management for many years, some advocates of net
neutrality fear that the technique may be used anticompetitively or to
reduce the openness of the Internet.\[3\]

DPI is used in a wide range of applications, at the so-called
"enterprise" level (corporations and larger institutions), in
telecommunications service providers, and in governments.

##  DPNSS

Digital Private Network Signalling System

The Digital Private Network Signalling System (DPNSS) is a network
protocol used on digital trunk lines for connecting to PABX. It supports
a defined set of inter-networking facilities.

DPNSS was originally defined by British Telecom. The specification for
the protocol is defined in BTNR188. The specification currently comes
under the Network Interoperability Consultative Committee.

##  DQ

Data Quality

##  Draft

An artifact under revision control but not yet under *change control.*

##  driver

a program that interacts with a particular device or special kind of
software. The driver contains special knowledge of the device or special
software interface that programs using the driver do not.

##  DSCP

Diff-Serve Code Point

Differentiated services or DiffServ is a computer networking
architecture that specifies a simple and scalable mechanism for
classifying and managing network traffic and providing quality of
service (QoS) on modern IP networks. DiffServ can, for example, be used
to provide low-latency to critical network traffic such as voice or
streaming media while providing simple best-effort service to
non-critical services such as web traffic or file transfers.

DiffServ uses a 6-bit differentiated services code point (DSCP) in the
8-bit differentiated services field (DS field) in the IP header for
packet classification purposes. The DS field replaces the outdated IPv4
TOS field.

##  DSDM

dynamic systems development method

agile development methodology, now changed to the 'DSDM project
management framework'.

##  DSL

Digital Subscriber Line

Digital subscriber line (DSL; originally digital subscriber loop) is a
family of technologies that are used to transmit digital data over
telephone lines. In telecommunications marketing, the term DSL is widely
understood to mean asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL), the most
commonly installed DSL technology, for Internet access.\
![](./images/D/15008043.png?width=485)

##  DSLAM

Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexor

Allows telephone lines to make faster connections to the Internet. It is
a network device, located near the customer's premises and connects
multiple customers Digital Subscriber Lines (DSL) to a high-speed
Internet backbone line using multiplexing techniques.\
![](./images/D/15008049.png?width=485)

##  DTE

Data Terminal Equipment

Data terminal equipment (DTE) is an end instrument that converts user
information into signals or reconverts received signals. These can also
be called tail circuits. A DTE device communicates with the data
circuit-terminating equipment (DCE). The DTE/DCE classification was
introduced by IBM.\
![](./images/D/15007971.png?width=491)

##  DTMF

Dual Tone Multi Frequency

Dual-tone multi-frequency signalling (DTMF) is an in-band
telecommunication signalling system using the voice-frequency band over
telephone lines between telephone equipment and other communications
devices and switching centres. DTMF was first developed in the Bell
System in the United States, and became known under the trademark
Touch-Tone for use in push-button telephones supplied to telephone
customers, starting in 1963.\[1\] DTMF is standardized as ITU-T
Recommendation Q.23.\[2\] It is also known in the UK as MF4.

The Touch-Tone system using a telephone keypad gradually replaced the
use of rotary dial and has become the industry standard for landline and
mobile service. Other multi-frequency systems are used for internal
signalling within the telephone network.\
![](./images/D/15008055.png?width=398)

##  DTT

Digital Terrestrial TV

Digital terrestrial television (DTTV or DTT) is a technology for
broadcast television in which land-based (terrestrial) television
stations broadcast television content by radio waves to televisions in
consumers' residences in a digital format. DTTV is a major technological
advance over the previous analog television, and has largely replaced
analog which had been in common use since the middle of the last
century. Test broadcasts began in 1998 with the changeover to DTTV (aka
Analog Switchoff (ASO) or Digital Switchover (DSO)) beginning in 2006
and is now complete in many countries. The advantages of digital
terrestrial television are similar to those obtained by digitising
platforms such as cable TV, satellite, and telecommunications: more
efficient use of limited radio spectrum bandwidth, provision of more
television channels than analog, better quality images, and potentially
lower operating costs for broadcasters (after the initial upgrade
costs).

##  DTV

Digital TV

Digital television (DTV) is the transmission of television signals,
including the sound channel, using digital encoding, in contrast to the
earlier television technology, analog television, in which the video and
audio are carried by analog signals. It is an innovative advance that
represents the first significant evolution in television technology
since color television in the 1950s. Digital TV makes more economical
use of scarce radio spectrum space; it can transmit multiple channels in
the same bandwidth occupied by a single channel of analog television,
and provides many new features that analog television cannot. A
switchover from analog to digital broadcasting began around 2006 in some
countries, and many industrial countries have now completed the
changeover, while other countries are in various stages of adaptation.
Different digital television broadcasting standards have been adopted in
different parts of the world

##  Duplex

A duplex communication system is a point-to-point system composed of two
or more connected parties or devices that can communicate with one
another in both directions. Duplex systems are employed in many
communications networks, either to allow for a communication "two-way
street" between two connected parties or to provide a "reverse path" for
the monitoring and remote adjustment of equipment in the field. There
are two types of duplex communication systems: full-duplex (FDX) and
half-duplex (HDX).

![](./images/D/15008061.png?width=373)

![](./images/D/15008067.png?width=442)

Full Duplex\
![](./images/D/15008073.png?width=220)

Half Duplex\
![](./images/D/15008079.png?width=220)

##  DVSR

Dynamically Verified Static Routing

Dynamically Verified Static Routing (DVSR) is a proprietary routing
protocol of the former Redback (now Ericsson) available on SmartEdge and
Smart Services Router products.

DVSR can be defined as a semi-dynamic and semi-static routing protocol.

A DVSR route is based on static routing principle, but the router
regularly checks for the next hop availability before the prefix can be
injected into the local routing table and redistributed towards other
routing tables. The DVSR route configuration allows the setup of success
and failure counters used to declare the route as active or not. It
could be described as a number of DVSR router attempts to ping the next
hop; in case of a given number of successful replies the route is added
to the local routing table or, after a set number of consecutive
failures, the route is withdrawn.

SmartEdge routers support DVSR as a unique edge routing feature in
addition to static routing and regular IGPs, such as IS-IS, OSPF, and
RIP. DVSR is similar to normal static routing. The main difference is
that the DVSR's next hop, or some other relevant host IP address, is
dynamically verified by this protocol before the prefix can be injected
into the local routing table. In many ISP networks, using static routing
without proper next-hop checks results in black holing of network
traffic.
