# E

##  E NodeB

Evolved Node-B

E-UTRAN Node B, also known as Evolved Node B (abbreviated as eNodeB or
eNB), is the element in E-UTRA of LTE that is the evolution of the
element Node B in UTRA of UMTS. It is the hardware that is connected to
the mobile phone network that communicates directly wirelessly with
mobile handsets (UEs), like a base transceiver station (BTS) in GSM
networks.

Traditionally, a Node B has minimum functionality, and is controlled by
a Radio Network Controller (RNC). However, with an eNB, there is no
separate controller element. This simplifies the architecture and allows
lower response times.

![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/14614584.png?width=340)

##  E.164

E.164 is an ITU-T recommendation, titled The international public
telecommunication numbering plan, that defines a numbering plan for the
worldwide public switched telephone network (PSTN) and some other data
networks.

E.164 defines a general format for international telephone numbers.
Plan-conforming numbers are limited to a maximum of 15 digits, excluding
the international call prefix.\[1\] The presentation of a number is
usually prefixed with the plus
sign ![(plus)](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/images/icons/emoticons/add.png),
indicating that the number includes the country calling code. When
dialing, the number must typically be prefixed with the appropriate
international call prefix (in place of the plus sign), which is a trunk
code to reach an international circuit from within the country of call
origination.

##  EAD

Ethernet Access Direct

Ethernet Access Direct (EAD) provides point-to-point data connectivity
between sites. It can be used to build and extend customer networks,
develop new infrastructure, and meet low-capacity backhaul requirements
(ie up to 1Gbps, which is the starting bandwidth for Ethernet Backhaul
Direct). EAD supports a range of requirements including cloud computing,
simultaneous online pupil access in classrooms and storage area network
connectivity.\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15008088.png?width=481)

##  EAP

Extensible Authentication Protocol

Extensible Authentication Protocol, or EAP, is an authentication
framework frequently used in wireless networks and point-to-point
connections. It is defined in RFC 3748, which made RFC 2284 obsolete,
and is updated by RFC 5247.

EAP is an authentication framework for providing the transport and usage
of keying material and parameters generated by EAP methods. There are
many methods defined by RFCs and a number of vendor specific methods and
new proposals exist. EAP is not a wire protocol; instead it only defines
message formats. Each protocol that uses EAP defines a way to
encapsulate EAP messages within that protocol's messages.

EAP is in wide use. For example, in IEEE 802.11 (WiFi) the WPA and WPA2
standards have adopted IEEE 802.1X with one hundred EAP Types as the
official authentication mechanisms\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15008096.png?width=480)

##  Earned Value

EV

A scheduling technique for tracking variance of actual performance to
planned performance.

##  Earned Value Management

EVM

The act or discipline of managing projects utilizing *earned
value* techniques and practices.

##  Echo

In audio signal processing and acoustics, Echo is a reflection of sound
that arrives at the listener with a delay after the direct sound. The
delay is proportional to the distance of the reflecting surface from the
source and the listener. Typical examples are the echo produced by the
bottom of a well, by a building, or by the walls of an enclosed room and
an empty room. A true echo is a single reflection of the sound source.

##  Echo cancellation

Echo suppression and echo cancellation are methods used in telephony to
improve voice quality by preventing echo from being created or removing
it after it is already present. In addition to improving subjective
audio quality, echo suppression increases the capacity achieved through
silence suppression by preventing echo from traveling across a network.
Echo suppressors were developed in the 1950s in response to the first
use of satellites for telecommunications, but they have since been
largely supplanted by better performing echo cancellers.

Echo suppression and cancellation methods are commonly called acoustic
echo suppression (AES) and acoustic echo cancellation (AEC), and more
rarely line echo cancellation (LEC). In some cases, these terms are more
precise, as there are various types and causes of echo with unique
characteristics, including acoustic echo (sounds from a loudspeaker
being reflected and recorded by a microphone, which can vary
substantially over time) and line echo (electrical impulses caused by,
e.g., coupling between the sending and receiving wires, impedance
mismatches, electrical reflections, etc., which varies much less than
acoustic echo). In practice, however, the same techniques are used to
treat all types of echo, so an acoustic echo canceller can cancel line
echo as well as acoustic echo. AEC in particular is commonly used to
refer to echo cancelers in general, regardless of whether they were
intended for acoustic echo, line echo, or both.

Although echo suppressors and echo cancellers have similar
goals---preventing a speaking individual from hearing an echo of their
own voice---the methods they use are different:

-   Echo suppressors work by detecting a voice signal going in one
    direction on a circuit, and then muting or attenuating the signal in
    other direction. Usually the echo suppressor at the far end of the
    circuit does this muting when it detects voice coming from the
    near-end of the circuit. This muting prevents the speaker from
    hearing their own voice returning from the far end.

-   Echo cancellation involves first recognizing the originally
    transmitted signal that re-appears, with some delay, in the
    transmitted or received signal. Once the echo is recognized, it can
    be removed by subtracting it from the transmitted or received
    signal. This technique is generally implemented digitally using a
    digital signal processor or software, although it can be implemented
    in analog circuits as well.

##  Echo Cancellation - G.168

Echo has a major effect on voice quality in telecommunication networks.
The objectionable effect of echo results from a combination of
reflections from network components such as 2- to 4-wire converters,
together with signal processing and transmission delay. Echo may cause
users difficulty in\
talking or listening over a telephone connection. It may also affect the
transmission of voiceband data, fax, and text telephones.\
Digital network echo cancellers are designed to eliminate echo for the
user and to allow successful transmission of voiceband data and fax.
Recommendation ITU-T G.168 describes the characteristics of an echo
canceller, including the requirement for in-band tone disabling and
other control\
mechanisms. It also describes a number of laboratory tests that should
be performed on an echo canceller to assess its performance under
conditions likely to be experienced in the network

##  EDB

Emergency Database

##  EDGE

Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution

Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) (also known as Enhanced
GPRS (EGPRS), or IMT Single Carrier (IMT-SC), or Enhanced Data rates for
Global Evolution) is a digital mobile phone technology that allows
improved data transmission rates as a backward-compatible extension of
GSM. EDGE is considered a pre-3G radio technology and is part of ITU's
3G definition. EDGE was deployed on GSM networks beginning in 2003 --
initially by Cingular (now AT&T) in the United States.

EDGE is standardized also by 3GPP as part of the GSM family. A variant,
so called Compact-EDGE, was developed for use in a portion of Digital
AMPS network spectrum.

Through the introduction of sophisticated methods of coding and
transmitting data, EDGE delivers higher bit-rates per radio channel,
resulting in a threefold increase in capacity and performance compared
with an ordinary GSM/GPRS connection.

EDGE can be used for any packet switched application, such as an
Internet connection.

##  Editor

For *inspections*, performs any necessary rework on artifacts.

##  EEE 802.1Qay

Provider Backbone Bridge Traffic Engineering (PBB-TE) is an approved
telecommunications networking standard, IEEE 802.1Qay-2009. PBB-TE
adapts Ethernet technology to carrier class transport networks. It is
based on the layered VLAN tags and MAC-in-MAC encapsulation defined in
IEEE 802.1ah (Provider Backbone Bridges (PBB)), but it differs from PBB
in eliminating flooding, dynamically created forwarding tables, and
spanning tree protocols. Compared to PBB and its predecessors, PBB-TE
behaves more predictably and its behavior can be more easily controlled
by the network operator, at the expense of requiring up-front connection
configuration at each bridge along a forwarding path. PBB-TE Operations,
Administration, and Management (OAM) is usually based on IEEE 802.1ag.
It was initially based on Nortel's Provider Backbone Transport (PBT).

PBB-TE's connection-oriented features and behaviors, as well as its OAM
approach, are inspired by SDH/SONET. PBB-TE can also provide path
protection levels similar to the UPSR (Unidirectional Path Switched
Ring) protection in SDH/SONET networks.

Principle of operation\
The IEEE 802.1Qay PBB-TE standard extends the functionality of IEEE
802.1ah Provider Backbone Bridges, adding a connection-oriented mode
using point-to-point trunks that deliver resiliency and configurable
performance levels.

A service is identified by an I-SID (Backbone Service Instance
Identifier) and each service is associated with a PBB-TE trunk. Each
PBB-TE trunk is identified by a triplet of B-SA, B-DA and B-VID. The
B-SA and B-DA identify the source and destination bridges, respectively,
that are the endpoints of the trunk. The B-VID is a backbone VLAN
identifier that is used to distinguish different trunks to the same
destination. The management system configures the PBB-TE trunks on all
the edge and core bridges by creating static forwarding database
entries; the management system is responsible for ensuring that there
are no forwarding loops.

The backbone edge bridges map frames to and from an I-SID and perform
the MAC header encapsulation and decapsulation functions. The core
bridges act as transit nodes. The packets are forwarded based on outer
VLAN ID (B-VID) and Destination MAC address (B-DA).

Forwarding is based on the static forwarding database (FDB) entries;
dynamic MAC learning is not used. Any incoming broadcast or multicast
frames are either dropped or encapsulated as unicast within the trunk.
All Destination Lookup Failure packets are dropped rather than flooded.
By eliminating any broadcasting or flooding, and by using only the
loop-free forwarding paths configured by management, there is no longer
any need to use a spanning tree protocol.

Path protection is provided by configuring one work and one protect
B-VID for each backbone service instance. In case of work path failure
(as indicated by loss of 802.1ag continuity check messages, CCMs) the
source bridge swaps the B-VID value to redirect the traffic onto the
preconfigured protection path within 50 ms.

PBB-TE equipment leverages economies of scale inherent in Ethernet,
promising solutions that are 30% to 40% cheaper than T-MPLS networks
with identical features and capabilities, giving PBB-TE a better overall
return on investment.

##  EFM

Ethernet in the First Mile

describes the inclusion of an Ethernet connection at any point in the
network where the provider and customer are immediately connected.

##  Egress

Egress traffic is network traffic that begins inside of a network and
proceeds through its routers to a destination somewhere outside of the
network. For example, an email message that is considered egress traffic
will travel from a user's workstation and pass through the enterprise's
LAN routers before it is delivered to the Internet to travel to its
final destination.\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15008102.png?width=350)

##  EIA

Electronic Industries Alliance

The Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA; until 1997 Electronic
Industries Association) was a standards and trade organization composed
as an alliance of trade associations for electronics manufacturers in
the United States. They developed standards to ensure the equipment of
different manufacturers was compatible and interchangeable. The EIA
ceased operations on February 11, 2011, but the former sectors continue
to serve the constituencies of EIA

##  EIGRP

Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol

Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) is an advanced
distance-vector routing protocol that is used on a computer network for
automating routing decisions and configuration. The protocol was
designed by Cisco Systems as a proprietary protocol, available only on
Cisco routers. Functionality of EIGRP was converted to an open standard
in 2013\[1\] and was published with informational status as RFC 7868 in
2016.

EIGRP is used on a router to share routes with other routers within the
same autonomous system. Unlike other well known routing protocols, such
as RIP, EIGRP only sends incremental updates, reducing the workload on
the router and the amount of data that needs to be transmitted.

EIGRP replaced the Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (IGRP) in 1993. One
of the major reasons for this was the change to classless IPv4 addresses
in the Internet Protocol, which IGRP could not support.

##  embedded systems programming

the programming of an embedded system in some device using the permitted
programming interfaces provided by that system.

##  Engineering Discussion

A brainstorming meeting designed to frame an *issue* and seek solutions
for it.\
If materials are prepared ahead of time for review by participants the
meeting may be considered a *preview*.

##  Engineering Management

EM

Software engineering management. Planning, staffing, tracking, and
controlling execution of software projects, along with team and
organizational management. Also denotes the engineering management CKA.
See C*xStand\_EngineeringManagement* for more information.

##  Engineering Process

Software engineering process. Defining how software engineering
activities occur. Also denotes the engineering process CKA.
See *CxStand\_Process* for more information.

##  EoFTTC

Ethernet over Fibre to the Cabinet

Ethernet over Fibre to the Cabinet (EoFTTC) is provided by copper from
your business premises over the short distance to the green cabinets in
the street. Unlike standard broadband where the copper then continues
all the way to the exchange, Ethernet over Fibre to the Cabinet traffic
travels across a shared fibre optic circuit to the exchange. The extra
distance doesn't lead to ongoing degradation of performance, which
allows access to up to 20Mbps symmetrical speed with the additional
boost downstream making a total of 76Mbps downstream bandwidth.\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15008108.png?width=481)

##  EoS

Ethernet Over SONET

Ethernet Over SDH (EoS or EoSDH) or Ethernet over SONET refers to a set
of protocols which allow Ethernet traffic to be carried over synchronous
digital hierarchy networks in an efficient and flexible way. The same
functions are available using SONET.

Ethernet frames which are to be sent on the SDH link are sent through an
"encapsulation" block (typically Generic Framing Procedure or GFP) to
create a synchronous stream of data from the asynchronous Ethernet
packets. The synchronous stream of encapsulated data is then passed
through a mapping block which typically uses virtual concatenation
(VCAT) to route the stream of bits over one or more SDH paths. As this
is byte interleaved, it provides a better level of security compared to
other mechanisms for Ethernet transport.

##  ePDG

Evolved Packet Data Gateway

The main function of the ePDG is to secure the data transmission with a
UE connected to the EPC over an untrusted non-3GPP access. For this
purpose, the ePDG acts as a termination node of IPsec tunnels
established with the UE.\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/plugins/servlet/confluence/placeholder/unknown-attachment "UNKNOWN_ATTACHMENT")

##  Epic

An epic is a large user story.

##  EPWS

Ethernet Private Wire Service

##  ESB

Enterprise Service Bus

An enterprise service bus (ESB) implements a communication system
between mutually interacting software applications in a service-oriented
architecture (SOA). It implements a software architecture as depicted in
the picture. As it implements a distributed computing architecture, it
implements a special variant of the more general client-server model,
wherein, in general, any application using ESB can behave as server or
client in turns. ESB promotes agility and flexibility with regard to
high-level protocol communication between applications. The primary goal
of the high-level protocol communication is enterprise application
integration (EAI) of heterogeneous and complex service or application
landscapes (a view from the network level).\
The concept is analogous to the bus concept found in computer hardware
architecture combined with the modular and concurrent design of
high-performance computer operating systems. The motivation for the
development of ESB was to find a standard, structured, and general
purpose concept for describing implementation of loosely coupled
software components (called services) that are expected to be
independently deployed, running, heterogeneous, and disparate within a
network. ESB is also a common implementation pattern for
service-oriented architecture.

An ESB applies the design concept of modern operating systems to
independent services running within networks of disparate and
independent computers. Like concurrent operating systems, an ESB
provides commodity services in addition to adoption, translation and
routing of client requests to appropriate answering services.

The primary duties of an ESB are:

-   Route messages between services

-   Monitor and control routing of message exchange between services

-   Resolve contention between communicating service components

-   Control deployment and versioning of services

-   Marshal use of redundant services

-   Provide commodity services like event handling, data transformation
    and mapping, message and event queuing and sequencing, security or
    exception handling, protocol conversion and enforcing proper quality
    of communication service

    ![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15008114.png?width=142)

##  Estimate

The output of an estimation process, containing a description of inputs,
assumptions, methodology, and the resulting estimate values. Depending
on purpose and formality an *estimate*'s packaging can range from a
document containing complete output of several different estimation
techniques (see *project estimate*) to a terse summary (see *task
estimate*).

##  Estimation

In software development, an "estimate" is the evaluation of the effort
necessary to carry out a given development task; this is most often
expressed in terms of duration.

##  Estimation

The process of determining the size, cost, schedule, effort, and/or
quality *estimates* for a project. It is best to use as many different
estimation techniques as possible when creating *estimates*, and to
create *estimates* regularly through the life of a project.

##  Ethernet over twisted pair

Ethernet over twisted-pair technologies use twisted-pair cables for the
physical layer of an Ethernet computer network. They are a subset of all
Ethernet physical layers.

Early Ethernet used various grades of coaxial cable, but in 1984,
StarLAN showed the potential of simple unshielded twisted pair. This led
to the development of 10BASE-T and its successors 100BASE-TX, 1000BASE-T
and 10GBASE-T, supporting speeds of 10 and 100 megabit per second, then
1 and 10 gigabit per second respectively.

Two new variants of 10 megabit per second Ethernet over a single twisted
pair, known as 10BASE-T1S and 10BASE-T1L, were standardized in IEEE Std
802.3cg-2019.\[2\] 10BASE-T1S has its origins in the automotive industry
and may be useful in other short-distance applications where substantial
electrical noise is present. 10BASE-T1L is a long-distance Ethernet,
supporting connections up to 1 km in length. Both of these standards are
finding applications implementing the Internet of things.

![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15138870.png)![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/14614590.png)

##  Ethical Hacking

The term "white hat" in Internet slang refers to an ethical computer
hacker, or a computer security expert, who specializes in penetration
testing and in other testing methodologies that ensures the security of
an organization's information systems. Ethical hacking is a term meant
to imply a broader category than just penetration testing. Contrasted
with black hat, a malicious hacker, the name comes from Western films,
where heroic and antagonistic cowboys might traditionally wear a white
and a black hat respectively.

##  ETL

Extract, Transform, Load

ETL is short for extract, transform, load, three database functions that
are combined into one tool to pull data out of one database and place it
into another database.

-   Extract is the process of reading data from a database. In this
    stage, the data is collected, often from multiple and different
    types of sources.

-   Transform is the process of converting the extracted data from its
    previous form into the form it needs to be in so that it can be
    placed into another database. Transformation occurs by using rules
    or lookup tables or by combining the data with other data.

-   Load is the process of writing the data into the target database.\
    Data from one or more sources is extracted and then copied to the
    data warehouse. When dealing with large volumes of data and multiple
    source systems, the data is consolidated. ETL is used to migrate
    data from one database to another, and is often the specific process
    required to load data to and from data marts and data warehouses,
    but is a process that is also used to large convert (transform)
    databases from one format or type to another.

    ![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15008126.png)

##  ETSI

European Telecommunications Standards Institute

The European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) is an
independent, not-for-profit, standardization organization in the
telecommunications industry (equipment makers and network operators) in
Europe, headquartered in Sophia-Antipolis, France, with worldwide
projection. ETSI produces globally-applicable standards for Information
and Communications Technologies (ICT), including fixed, mobile, radio,
converged, broadcast and internet technologies.

ETSI was created by CEPT in 1988 and is officially recognized by the
European Commission and the EFTA secretariat. Based in Sophia Antipolis
(France), ETSI is officially responsible for standardization of
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) within Europe.

ETSI publishes between 2,000 and 2,500 standards every year. Since its
establishment in 1988, it has produced over 30,000. These include the
standards that enable key global technologies such as GSM cell phone
system, 3G, 4G, DECT, TETRA professional mobile radio system, and Short
Range Device requirements including LPD radio, smart cards and many more
standards success stories.

Significant ETSI technical committees and Industry Specification Groups
(ISGs) include SmartM2M (for machine-to-machine communications),
Intelligent Transport Systems, Network Functions Virtualisation, Cyber
Security, Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures etc. ETSI inspired
the creation of, and is a partner in, 3GPP and oneM2M.

##  E-UTRAN

E-UTRA is the air interface of 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP)
Long Term Evolution (LTE) upgrade path for mobile networks. It is an
acronym for Evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS)
Terrestrial Radio Access, also referred to as the 3GPP work item on the
Long Term Evolution (LTE) also known as the Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) in early drafts of the 3GPP LTE
specification. E-UTRAN is the initialism of Evolved UMTS Terrestrial
Radio Access Network and is the combination of E-UTRA, user equipment
(UE), and E-UTRAN Node B or Evolved Node B (EnodeB).

It is a radio access network (RAN) which is referred to under the name
EUTRAN standard meant to be a replacement of the UMTS and HSDPA/HSUPA
technologies specified in 3GPP releases 5 and beyond. Unlike HSPA, LTE's
E-UTRA is an entirely new air interface system, unrelated to and
incompatible with W-CDMA. It provides higher data rates, lower latency
and is optimized for packet data. It uses OFDMA radio-access for the
downlink and SC-FDMA on the uplink.\
![](https://markbac.github.io/Glossary/attachments/15008089/15008132.png?width=480)

##  Evaluation

CxEval

CxOne evaluation material type, see *CxOneOverview* for description.

##  EVC

Ethernet Virtual Connection

Ethernet virtual circuits (EVCs) define a Layer 2 bridging architecture
that supports Ethernet services. An EVC is defined by the Metro-Ethernet
Forum (MEF) as an association between two or more user network
interfaces that identifies a point-to-point or multipoint-to-multipoint
path within the service provider network. An EVC is a conceptual service
pipe within the service provider network. A bridge domain is a local
broadcast domain that exists separately from VLANs.

##  Evolutionary Delivery Lifecycle

A combination of the *evolutionary prototyping* and *staged
delivery* lifecycles.

##  Evolutionary Prototyping Lifecycle

A system concept is evolved through iteration until the system is ready
for delivery.

##  EVPL

Ethernet Virtual Private Line

Ethernet private line (EPL) and Ethernet virtual private line (EVPL) are
data services defined by the MEF. EPL provides a point-to-point Ethernet
virtual connection (EVC) between a pair of dedicated user--network
interfaces (UNIs), with a high degree of transparency. EVPL provides a
point-to-point or point-to-multipoint connection between a pair of UNIs.

The services are categorized as an E-Line service type, with an
expectation of low frame delay, frame delay variation and frame loss
ratio. EPL is implemented using a point-to-point EVC with no Service
Multiplexing at each UNI (physical interface), i.e., all service frames
at the UNI are mapped to a single EVC (a.k.a. all-to-one bundling).

Due to a high degree of transparency, EPL is often used to provide
point-to-point Transparent LAN Service (TLS), where the service frame's
header and payload are identical at both the source and destination UNI.
Some implementations tunnel most Ethernet Layer 2 Control Protocols
(L2CPs) except for some link layer L2CPs such as IEEE 802.3x pause
frames.

Unlike EPL, EVPL allows for service multiplexing, i.e., multiple EVCs or
Ethernet services per UNI. The other difference between the EVPL and EPL
is the degree of transparency - while EPL is highly transparent,
filtering only the pause frames, EVPL is required to either peer or drop
most of the Layer 2 Control Protocols.

##  Expert Judgment

*Estimation* technique that relies on participants creating estimates
based on personal experience and heuristics.\
Expert judgment can be used stand-alone, but is always best when
combined with analogy, statistical, and decomposition estimation
techniques.

##  Explicit Change Control

Refers to *artifacts* managed directly by a *change control board*.
Requirements and project plans are often under explicit change control.
Compare to *implicit change control.*

##  Explicit Risk Management

Synonym for *extrinsic risk management*.

##  Exploratory Testing

Exploratory testing is, more than strictly speaking a "practice," a
style or approach to testing software which is often contrasted to
"scripted testing."

##  Extrinsic Risk Management

Formal *risk management* techniques that are added to a project or
processes to explicitly mange risks. An example would be using a top 10
risks list to explicitly identify, prioritize, plan mitigation, and
report outcome of risk management. Compare to *intrinsic risk
management*.\
CxOne uses *corrective activity management* techniques to handles some
details of *extrinsic risk management*.
