# O

##  Objective C

Objective-C is a general-purpose, object-oriented programming language
that adds Smalltalk-style messaging to the C programming language. It
was the main programming language used by Apple for the OS X and iOS
operating systems, and their respective application programming
interfaces (APIs) Cocoa and Cocoa Touch prior to the introduction of
Swift.

##  Objectives

Synonym for *goals*.

##  ODF

Optical Distribution Frame

In telecommunications, a distribution frame is a passive device which
terminates cables, allowing arbitrary interconnections to be made.

##  OFC

Optical fiber connector

An optical fiber connector terminates the end of an optical fiber, and
enables quicker connection and disconnection than splicing. The
connectors mechanically couple and align the cores of fibers so light
can pass. Better connectors lose very little light due to reflection or
misalignment of the fibers. In all, about 100 different types of fiber
optic connectors have been introduced to the market.\
![](./images/O/15008720.png?width=220)

##  Ofcom

The Office of Communications, commonly known as Ofcom, is the UK
government-approved regulatory and competition authority for the
broadcasting, telecommunications and postal industries of the United
Kingdom.

Ofcom has wide-ranging powers across the television, radio, telecoms and
postal sectors. It has a statutory duty to represent the interests of
citizens and consumers by promoting competition and protecting the
public from harmful or offensive material.

Some of the main areas Ofcom presides over are licensing, research,
codes and policies, complaints, competition and protecting the radio
spectrum from abuse (e.g. pirate radio stations).

The regulator was initially established by the Office of Communications
Act 2002 and received its full authority from the Communications Act
2003.

##  OFDMA

Orthogonal frequency-division multiple access

Orthogonal frequency-division multiple access (OFDMA) is a multi-user
version of the popular orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM)
digital modulation scheme. Multiple access is achieved in OFDMA by
assigning subsets of subcarriers to individual users. This allows
simultaneous low-data-rate transmission from several users

##  OO

Object-oriented

Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm based on the
concept of "objects", which may contain data, in the form of fields,
often known as attributes; and code, in the form of procedures, often
known as methods. A feature of objects is that an object's procedures
can access and often modify the data fields of the object with which
they are associated (objects have a notion of "this" or "self"). In OOP,
computer programs are designed by making them out of objects that
interact with one another. There is significant diversity of OOP
languages, but the most popular ones are class-based, meaning that
objects are instances of classes, which typically also determine their
type.

Many of the most widely-used programming languages (such as C+, Object
Pascal, Java, Python etc.) are multi-paradigm programming languages that
support object-oriented programming to a greater or lesser degree,
typically in combination with imperative, procedural programming.
Significant object-oriented languages include Java, C+, C\#, Python,
PHP, Ruby, Perl, Object Pascal, Objective-C, Dart, Swift, Scala, Common
Lisp, and Smalltalk.

##  Operations Plan

A plan specifying how a system will be utilized after deployment along
with other information such as roles, responsibilities, maintenance
schedules, etc.

##  OPUS

Opus is a lossy audio coding format developed by the Xiph.Org Foundation
and standardized by the Internet Engineering Task Force, designed to
efficiently code speech and general audio in a single format, while
remaining low-latency enough for real-time interactive communication and
low-complexity enough for low-end embedded processors. Opus replaces
both Vorbis and Speex for new applications, and several blind listening
tests have ranked it higher-quality than any other standard audio format
at any given bitrate until transparency is reached, including MP3, AAC,
and HE-AAC.

Opus combines the speech-oriented linear predictive coding SILK
algorithm and the lower-latency, MDCT-based CELT algorithm, switching
between or combining them as needed for maximal efficiency. Bitrate,
audio bandwidth, complexity, and algorithm can all be adjusted
seamlessly in each frame. Opus has the low algorithmic delay (26.5 ms by
default) necessary for use as part of a real-time communication link,
permitting natural conversation, networked music performances, and live
lip sync; by trading-off quality or bitrate, the delay can be reduced
down to 5 ms. Its delay is exceptionally low compared to competing
codecs, which require well over 100 ms, yet Opus performs very
competitively with these formats in terms of quality per bitrate

##  OS X

macOS (previously Mac OS X and later OS X) is a series of graphical
operating systems developed and marketed by Apple Inc. since 2001. It is
the primary operating system for Apple's Mac family of computers. Within
the market of desktop, laptop and home computers, and by web usage, it
is the second most widely used desktop OS, after Microsoft Windows.

macOS is the second major series of Macintosh operating systems. The
first is colloquially called the "classic" Mac OS, which was introduced
in 1984, and the final release of which was Mac OS 9 in 1999. The first
desktop version, Mac OS X 10.0, was released in March 2001, with its
first update, 10.1, arriving later that year. After this, Apple began
naming its releases after big cats, which lasted until OS X 10.8
Mountain Lion. Since OS X 10.9 Mavericks, releases have been named after
landmarks in California. Apple shortened the name to "OS X" in 2012 and
then changed it to "macOS" in 2016, adopting the nomenclature that they
were using for their other operating systems, iOS, watchOS, and tvOS.
The latest version is macOS High Sierra, which was publicly released in
September 2017.

##  OSA-FC

Optical Spectrum Access Filter Connect

Openreach virtual dark fibre service that provides CPs all the key
benefits of dark fibre -- like the freedom to control and increase
bandwidth usage at no extra cost -- without compromising on service and
maintenance levels.

It works by enabling CPs to operate their own network electronics on top
of a managed connection which Openreach can monitor 24/7 and provide
rapid response and repair times over.\
![](./images/O/15008728.png?width=485)

##  OSPF

Open Shortest Path First

Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) is a routing protocol for Internet
Protocol (IP) networks. It uses a link state routing (LSR) algorithm and
falls into the group of interior gateway protocols (IGPs), operating
within a single autonomous system (AS). It is defined as OSPF Version 2
in RFC 2328 (1998) for IPv4. The updates for IPv6 are specified as OSPF
Version 3 in RFC 5340 (2008). OSPF supports the Classless Inter-Domain
Routing (CIDR) addressing model.

OSPF is a widely used IGP in large enterprise networks. IS-IS, another
LSR-based protocol, is more common in large service provider networks.

##  OSS

Operations support systems

Operations support systems (OSS), or operational support systems in
British usage, are computer systems used by telecommunications service
providers to manage their networks (e.g., telephone networks). They
support management functions such as network inventory, service
provisioning, network configuration and fault management.

Together with business support systems (BSS), they are used to support
various end-to-end telecommunication services. BSS and OSS have their
own data and service responsibilities. The two systems together are
often abbreviated OSS/BSS, BSS/OSS or simply B/OSS.

The abbreviation OSS is also used in a singular form to refer to all the
Operations Support Systems viewed as a whole system.

Different subdivisions of OSS have been proposed by the TM Forum,
industrial research labs or OSS vendors. In general, an OSS covers at
least the following five functions:

-   Network management systems

-   Service delivery

-   Service fulfillment, including the network inventory, activation and
    provisioning

-   Service assurance

-   Customer care\
    ![](./images/O/15008734.png?width=300)

##  OTN

Optical Transport Network

ITU-T defines an Optical Transport Network (OTN) as a set of Optical
Network Elements (ONE) connected by optical fiber links, able to provide
functionality of transport, multiplexing, switching, management,
supervision and survivability of optical channels carrying client
signals.

##  Out-of-order delivery

In computer networking, out-of-order delivery is the delivery of data
packets in a different order from which they were sent. Out-of-order
delivery can be caused by packets following multiple paths through a
network, or via parallel processing paths within network equipment that
are not designed to ensure that packet ordering is preserved. One of the
functions of TCP is to prevent the out-of-order delivery of data, either
by reassembling packets into order or forcing retries of out-of-order
packets.\
![](./images/O/15008740.png?width=480)

##  Overlap Dialling

Overlap dialing is required by CAS signaled lines. Overlap dial provides
for a longer time-out period between digits, also called the inter-digit
timer. With overlap dial set to off, the gateway expects to receive the
digits one right after the other coming in to this line with very little
delay between digits. With overlap dial set to on, then the device waits
up to about 2 seconds between digits.

Basically overlap dialing is a mechanism where a destination number can
be specified partially to complete the first stage of a routing path.
For example, if the number was "23168104", it may be possible for the
telecom to dial "23168" to reach the first port of call as quickly as
possible (to save time on sending the remaining 3 digits) and then
deliver the remaining 3 digits "104" in overlap mode.
