# T

## Task

An atomic unit of work on a project. See *activity*.

## T-Shirt Sizing

T-shirt sizing is a way to practice relative sizing. By comparing
stories, you can break them into buckets of extra-small, small, medium,
large, and extra-large.

Estimating in relative buckets is more important than estimating
absolute time or effort. We want to understand how things compare to
each other in a rough sense, and not waste time on false precision.

## Task Board

The most basic form of a task board is divided into three columns
labeled "To Do," "In Progress," and "Done." Cards are placed in the
columns to reflect the current status of that task.\
![](./images/T/15009042.png?width=353)

## Task Estimate

An *estimate* for a particular task. Depending on purpose and formality
these *estimates* are often created and captured as part of ongoing
planning and tracking and incorporated in *work plans* and *detailed
schedules.*

## TCAP

Transaction Capabilities Application Part

Transaction Capabilities Application Part, from ITU-T recommendations
Q.771-Q.775 or ANSI T1.114 is a protocol for Signalling System 7
networks. Its primary purpose is to facilitate multiple concurrent
dialogs between the same sub-systems on the same machines, using
Transaction IDs to differentiate these, similar to the way TCP ports
facilitate multiplexing connections between the same IP addresses on the
Internet.

TCAP uses ASN.1 BER encoding, as well as the protocols it encapsulates,
namely MAP in mobile phone networks or INAP in Intelligent Networks.

## Tcl/tk

Tk is a free and open-source, cross-platform widget toolkit that
provides a library of basic elements of GUI widgets for building a
graphical user interface (GUI) in many programming languages.

Tk provides a number of widgets commonly needed to develop desktop
applications, such as button, menu, canvas, text, frame, label, etc. Tk
has been ported to run on most flavors of Linux, Mac OS, Unix, and
Microsoft Windows. Like Tcl, Tk supports Unicode within the Basic
Multilingual Plane but it has not yet been extended to handle 32-bit
Unicode.

Tk was designed to be extended, and a wide range of extensions are
available that offer new widgets or other capabilities.

Since Tcl/Tk 8, it offers "native look and feel" (for instance, menus
and buttons are displayed in the manner of "native" software for any
given platform). Highlights of version 8.5 include a new theming engine,
originally called Tk Tile, but now generally referred to as "themed Tk",
as well as improved font rendering.

## TCP

Transmission Control Protocol

The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is one of the main protocols of
the Internet protocol suite. It originated in the initial network
implementation in which it complemented the Internet Protocol (IP).
Therefore, the entire suite is commonly referred to as TCP/IP. TCP
provides reliable, ordered, and error-checked delivery of a stream of
octets (bytes) between applications running on hosts communicating via
an IP network. Major internet applications such as the World Wide Web,
email, remote administration, and file transfer rely on TCP.
Applications that do not require reliable data stream service may use
the User Datagram Protocol (UDP), which provides a connectionless
datagram service that emphasizes reduced latency over reliability.

![](./images/T/15009050.png?width=480)

## Tcsh

tcsh is a Unix shell based on and compatible with the C shell (csh). It
is essentially the C shell with programmable command-line completion,
command-line editing, and a few other features. Unlike the other common
shells, functions cannot be defined in a tcsh script and the user must
use aliases instead (as in csh). It is the native root
shell for BSD-based systems such as FreeBSD.

tcsh added filename and command completion and command line editing
concepts borrowed from the Tenex system, which is the source of the "t".
Because it only added functionality and did not change what was there,
tcsh remained backward compatible with the original C shell. Though it
started as a side branch from the original source tree Joy had created,
tcsh is now the main branch for ongoing development. tcsh is very stable
but new releases continue to appear roughly once a year, consisting
mostly of minor bug fixes.

## TDD

Test Driven Development

Test-driven development is a style of programming in which three
activities are tightly interwoven: coding, testing (in the form of
writing unit tests) and design (in the form of refactoring).

## TDM

Time Division Multiplexing

Time-division multiplexing (TDM) is a method of transmitting and
receiving independent signals over a common signal path by means of
synchronized switches at each end of the transmission line so that each
signal appears on the line only a fraction of time in an alternating
pattern. It is used when the bit rate of the transmission medium exceeds
that of the signal to be transmitted. This form of signal multiplexing
was developed in telecommunications for telegraphy systems in the late
19th century, but found its most common application in digital telephony
in the second half of the 20th century.\
![](./images/T/15009056.png?width=480)

## Team

A "team" in the Agile sense is a small group of people, assigned to the
same project or effort, nearly all of them on a full-time basis.

## Team Room

The team (ideally the whole team, including the product owner or domain
expert) has the use of a dedicated space for the duration of the
project, set apart from other groups' activities.

## Technical Debt

Technical debt (also known as design debt or code debt) is a concept in
software development that reflects the implied cost of additional rework
caused by choosing an easy solution now instead of using a better
approach that would take longer.

Technical debt can be compared to monetary debt. If technical debt is
not repaid, it can accumulate 'interest', making it harder to implement
changes later on. Unaddressed technical debt increases software entropy.
Technical debt is not necessarily a bad thing, and sometimes (e.g., as a
proof-of-concept) technical debt is required to move projects forward.
On the other hand, some experts claim that the "technical debt" metaphor
tends to minimize the impact, which results in insufficient
prioritization of the necessary work to correct it

## Template

CxTemp

CxOne template material type. Provides an outline, framework, or
container for creating an *artifact*. See *CxOneOverview* for
description.

## Test

See *Testing*. May also be used to describe an individual *test case*.

## Test Activity

A specific test procedure created by combining one or more *test
techniques* and *test types*.

## Test Case

TC

A description of inputs, execution instructions, and expected results,
which are created for the purpose of determining whether a specific
software feature works correctly or a specific *requirement* has been
satisfied.

## Test Case Specification

TCS

Documents the set of *test cases* needed to verify one or more product
features.

## Test Design

Provides a bridge between the *test cases* and the
product's *requirements* and *design*. Test design is analogous to
software design, and is used when test solutions require a significant
amount of analysis and defined structure.\
Test design is not software design necessary to support testing (e.g.,
design of an automated test framework).

## Test Design Specification

TDS

Documents the *test design* for a group of *test cases*.

## Test Level

Synonym for *test type*.

## Test Plan

TP

Documents the scope, approach, resources, test items, and schedule of
the testing activities.

## Test Technique

Strategy and approach to a *test activity*.

## Test Type

Standard definitions capturing the what, how, why, and when of a *test
activity*.

## Testing

Software testing CKA. Dynamic execution of software to detect *defects*.
See *CxStand\_Testing* for more information.

## Three Amigos

Three amigos refers to the primary perspectives to examine an increment
of work before, during, and after development. Those perspectives are
Business, Development, and Testing.

## Three C's

"Card, Conversation, Confirmation" is a formula that captures the
components of a User Story.

## Three Questions

The daily meeting is structured around some variant of the following
three questions: What have you completed? What will you do next? What is
getting in your way?

## TIA

Telecommunications Industry Association

The Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) is accredited by the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) to develop voluntary,
consensus-based industry standards for a wide variety of Information and
Communication Technologies (ICT) products, and currently represents
nearly 400 companies. TIA's Standards and Technology Department operates
twelve engineering committees, which develop guidelines for private
radio equipment, cellular towers, data terminals, satellites, telephone
terminal equipment, accessibility, VoIP devices, structured cabling,
data centers, mobile device communications, multimedia multicast,
vehicular telematics, healthcare ICT, machine to machine communications,
and smart utility networks.

## Timebox

A timebox is a previously agreed period of time during which a person or
a team works steadily towards completion of some goal.

## TKIP

Temporal Key Integrity Protocol

Temporal Key Integrity Protocol or TKIP /tiːˈkɪp/ is a security protocol
used in the IEEE 802.11 wireless networking standard. TKIP was designed
by the IEEE 802.11i task group and the Wi-Fi Alliance as an interim
solution to replace WEP without requiring the replacement of legacy
hardware. This was necessary because the breaking of WEP had left Wi-Fi
networks without viable link-layer security, and a solution was required
for already deployed hardware. However, TKIP itself is no longer
considered secure, and was deprecated in the 2012 revision of the 802.11
standard.

## TLS

Transport Layer Security

Transport Layer Security (TLS) -- and its predecessor, Secure Sockets
Layer (SSL), which is now deprecated by the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF) -- are cryptographic protocols that provide communications
security over a computer network. Several versions of the protocols find
widespread use in applications such as web browsing, email, instant
messaging, and voice over IP (VoIP). Websites are able to use TLS to
secure all communications between their servers and web browsers.

The TLS protocol aims primarily to provide privacy and data integrity
between two or more communicating computer applications. When secured by
TLS, connections between a client (e.g., a web browser) and a server
(e.g., wikipedia.org) have one or more of the following properties:

- The connection is private (or secure) because symmetric cryptography
    is used to encrypt the data transmitted. The keys for this symmetric
    encryption are generated uniquely for each connection and are based
    on a shared secret negotiated at the start of the session. The
    server and client negotiate the details of which encryption
    algorithm and cryptographic keys to use before the first byte of
    data is transmitted . The negotiation of a shared secret is both
    secure (the negotiated secret is unavailable to eavesdroppers and
    cannot be obtained, even by an attacker who places themselves in the
    middle of the connection) and reliable (no attacker can modify the
    communications during the negotiation without being detected).

- The identity of the communicating parties can be authenticated using
    public-key cryptography. This authentication can be made optional,
    but is generally required for at least one of the parties (typically
    the server).

- The connection is reliable because each message transmitted includes
    a message integrity check using a message authentication code to
    prevent undetected loss or alteration of the data during
    transmission.

- ![](./images/T/15009062.png?width=451)

## TLV

Type(Tag), Length and Value

Within data communication protocols, TLV (type-length-value or
tag-length-value) is an encoding scheme used for optional information
element in a certain protocol.

The type and length are fixed in size (typically 1-4 bytes), and the
value field is of variable size. These fields are used as follows:

Type\
A binary code, often simply alphanumeric, which indicates the kind of
field that this part of the message represents;\
Length\
The size of the value field (typically in bytes);\
Value\
Variable-sized series of bytes which contains data for this part of the
message.

![](./images/T/15009068.png?width=480)

## Token Ring

Token Ring local area network (LAN) technology is a communications
protocol for local area networks. It uses a special three-byte frame
called a "token" that travels around a logical "ring" of workstations or
servers. This token passing is a channel access method providing fair
access for all stations, and eliminating the collisions of
contention-based access methods.

Introduced by IBM in 1984, it was then standardized with protocol IEEE
802.5 and was fairly successful, particularly in corporate environments,
but gradually eclipsed by the later versions of Ethernet.\
![](./images/T/15009074.png?width=220)

## Top Level Schedule

See *Business Schedule*.

## Top-Down Estimation

Estimating a system by deriving values for the entire system, and then
splitting the total values among decomposed pieces of the system.

## Triple DES

In cryptography, Triple DES (3DES), officially the Triple Data
Encryption Algorithm (TDEA or Triple DEA), is a symmetric-key block
cipher, which applies the DES cipher algorithm three times to each data
block.

While the government and industry standards abbreviate the algorithm's
name as TDES (Triple DES) and TDEA (Triple Data Encryption Algorithm),
RFC 1851 called it 3DES from the time it first promulgated the idea, and
this namesake has since come into wide use by most vendors, users, and
cryptographers.

## TTY

A terminal emulator, terminal application, or term, is a program that
emulates a video terminal within some other display architecture. Though
typically synonymous with a shell or text terminal, the term terminal
covers all remote terminals, including graphical interfaces. A terminal
emulator inside a graphical user interface is often called a terminal
window.

A terminal window allows the user access to a text terminal and all its
applications such as command-line interfaces (CLI) and text user
interface (TUI) applications. These may be running either on the same
machine or on a different one via telnet, ssh, or dial-up. On Unix-like
operating systems, it is common to have one or more terminal windows
connected to the local machine.

## TUP

Telephone User Part

Telephone User Part (TUP) provides conventional PSTN telephony services
across the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) network. TUP was the first
layer 4 protocol defined by the standards bodies and as such did not
provision for ISDN services. It has now largely been replaced by ISUP.
However, it can still be found in operational use in some parts of the
world (e.g., China).

TUP is defined in ITU-T Recommendations Q.721-725. These define the
international telephone call control signalling functions for use over
SS7.

Various national variants of TUP have evolved, some of which provide
varying degrees of support for ISDN.

## Twisted pair

Twisted pair cabling is a type of wiring in which two conductors of a
single circuit are twisted together for the purposes of improving
electromagnetic compatibility. Compared to a single conductor or an
untwisted balanced pair, a twisted pair reduces electromagnetic
radiation, crosstalk between neighboring pairs and improves rejection of
external electromagnetic interference
