# W

##  W3C

World Wide Web Consortium

The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is the main international standards
organization for the World Wide Web (abbreviated WWW or W3).

Founded and currently led by Tim Berners-Lee, the consortium is made up
of member organizations which maintain full-time staff for the purpose
of working together in the development of standards for the World Wide
Web. As of 24 September 2017, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) has
474 members.

##  Walkthrough

An *informal* *review* in which the *author* and one or more people meet
to review an *artifact* with the intent of finding *defects*.

##  WAN

Wide Area Network

A wide area network (WAN) is a telecommunications network or computer
network that extends over a large geographical distance/place. Wide area
networks are often established with leased telecommunication circuits.

Business, education and government entities use wide area networks to
relay data to staff, students, clients, buyers, and suppliers from
various locations across the world. In essence, this mode of
telecommunication allows a business to effectively carry out its daily
function regardless of location. The Internet may be considered a WAN.

Related terms for other types of networks are personal area networks
(PANs), local area networks (LANs), campus area networks (CANs), or
metropolitan area networks (MANs) which are usually limited to a room,
building, campus or specific metropolitan area respectively.\
![](./images/W/15009199.png?width=480)

##  WANET

Wireless ad hoc network

A wireless ad hoc network (WANET) or MANET (Mobile ad hoc network) is a
decentralised type of wireless network. The network is ad hoc because it
does not rely on a pre-existing infrastructure, such as routers in wired
networks or access points in managed (infrastructure) wireless networks.
Instead, each node participates in routing by forwarding data for other
nodes, so the determination of which nodes forward data is made
dynamically on the basis of network connectivity and the routing
algorithm in use.\
In the Windows operating system, ad-hoc is a communication mode
(setting) that allows computers to directly communicate with each other
without a router.\
Wireless mobile ad hoc networks are self-configuring, dynamic networks
in which nodes are free to move. Wireless networks lack the complexities
of infrastructure setup and administration, enabling devices to create
and join networks "on the fly" -- anywhere, anytime.

##  WAP

Wireless Access Point

In computer networking, a wireless access point (WAP), or more generally
just access point (AP), is a networking hardware device that allows a
Wi-Fi device to connect to a wired network. The AP usually connects to a
router (via a wired network) as a standalone device, but it can also be
an integral component of the router itself. An AP is differentiated from
a hotspot, which is the physical location where Wi-Fi access to a WLAN
is available.

##  Waterfall

The waterfall model is a relatively linear sequential design approach
for certain areas of engineering design. In software development, it
tends to be among the less iterative and flexible approaches, as
progress flows in largely one direction ("downwards" like a waterfall)
through the phases of conception, initiation, analysis, design,
construction, testing, deployment and maintenance.

The waterfall development model originated in the manufacturing and
construction industries; where the highly structured physical
environments meant that design changes became prohibitively expensive
much sooner in the development process. When first adopted for software
development, there were no recognized alternatives for knowledge-based
creative work

The Waterfall methodology came about by mistake due to a
misunderstanding a 1970 paper which gave it as an example of a
methodology along with a comment that states this is a risky method and
invites failure. A US Department of Defense standard was published in
1985 with a methodology based on the 1970 paper and it then became
widespread.

![](./images/W/15009207.png?width=445)

##  Waterfall Lifecycle

An orderly sequence of phases from system concept to delivery with a
review at the end of each phase.

##  WBC

Wholesale Broadband Managed

The vanilla WBC product is the most flexible of the three. Crudely
speaking, it is not that dissimilar to DataStream. But rather than
having to rent capacity at every exchange from BT, the ISP has to
install equipment ("have presence") at BT's WBC Aggregation Points
(APs). There are twenty of these dotted around the country, and these
are the same as the Core nodes discussed on the 21CN overview. One
aggregation point will cover a region of the country, so an ISP would
need to have presence at all twenty to cover the entire of the UK.\
![](./images/W/15009213.png?width=481)

##  WBCC

Wholesale Broadband Connect Converge

There is relatively little public information available about this
product. It is known to roll the voice and broadband products in to a
package, with BT providing the ISP a single bill for both. Given that
this product will again be based on WBC, one can only assume that the
same product options and QoS would also be available.

##  WBMC

Wholesale Broadband Managed Connect

The IPSC replacement\
In the same way that the vanilla WBC product could be seen as a
replacement for DataStream, WBMC can be seen as a replacement for
IPStream. This product is an end-to-end product, encompassing the EUA
(End User Access), presence at the APs (Aggregation Points), EPs
(Extension Paths) and an MSIL (Although the MSIL is purchased separately
by the ISP). Ultimately this saves the ISP having to manage and maintain
presence at the 20 WBC nodes (APs), which would involve considerable
initial outlay and ongoing investment. The backhaul is also managed by
BT entirely. On the other side of the coin this means the ISP is locked
in to a BT platform - which may not necessarily be the cheapest - and it
certainly does not offer all of the flexibility that an ISP using WBC
would receive. That said, all of the same products and QoS options are
available on WBMC as on WBC.

##  W-CDMA

Wideband Code-division multiple access

W-CDMA or WCDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access), along with
UMTS-FDD, UTRA-FDD, or IMT-2000 CDMA Direct Spread is an air interface
standard found in 3G mobile telecommunications networks. It supports
conventional cellular voice, text and MMS services, but can also carry
data at high speeds, allowing mobile operators to deliver higher
bandwidth applications including streaming and broadband Internet
access.\[5\]

W-CDMA uses the DS-CDMA channel access method with a pair of 5 MHz wide
channels. In contrast, the competing CDMA2000 system uses one or more
available 1.25 MHz channels for each direction of communication. W-CDMA
systems are widely criticized for their large spectrum usage, which
delayed deployment in countries that acted relatively slowly in
allocating new frequencies specifically for 3G services (such as the
United States).

##  Weekly Individual Plan

A mechanism for individuals to create *miniature milestone* plan on a
weekly basis. See C*xGuide\_WeeklyIndividualPlan*.

##  WEP

Wired Equivalent Privacy

Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) is a security algorithm for IEEE 802.11
wireless networks. Introduced as part of the original 802.11 standard
ratified in 1997, its intention was to provide data confidentiality
comparable to that of a traditional wired network. WEP, recognizable by
its key of 10 or 26 hexadecimal digits (40 or 104 bits), was at one time
widely in use and was often the first security choice presented to users
by router configuration tools.

In 2003 the Wi-Fi Alliance announced that WEP had been superseded by
Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA). In 2004, with the ratification of the full
802.11i standard (i.e. WPA2), the IEEE declared that both WEP-40 and
WEP-104 have been deprecated.

WEP was the only encryption protocol available to 802.11a and 802.11b
devices built before the WPA standard, which was available for 802.11g
devices.

##  What Requirement

Synonym for *Functional Requirement*

##  Why Requirement

Synonym for *Business Requirement*

##  Wi-Fi

Wi-Fi or WiFi is technology for radio wireless local area networking of
devices based on the IEEE 802.11 standards. Wi Fi is a trademark of the
Wi-Fi Alliance, which restricts the use of the term Wi-Fi Certified to
products that successfully complete interoperability certification
testing.

Devices that can use Wi-Fi technology include desktops and laptops,
video game consoles, smartphones and tablets, smart TVs, digital audio
players and modern printers. Wi-Fi compatible devices can connect to the
Internet via a WLAN and a wireless access point. Such an access point
(or hotspot) has a range of about 20 meters (66 feet) indoors and a
greater range outdoors. Hotspot coverage can be as small as a single
room with walls that block radio waves, or as large as many square
kilometres achieved by using multiple overlapping access points.

Depiction of a device sending information wirelessly to another device,
both connected to the local network, in order to print a document\
Wi-Fi most commonly uses the 2.4 gigahertz (12 cm) UHF and 5.8 gigahertz
(5 cm) SHF ISM radio bands, these bands are subdivided into multiple
channels. Each channel can be time-shared by multiple networks. These
wavelengths work best for line-of-sight. Many common materials absorb or
reflect them, which further restricts range, but can tend to help
minimise interference between different networks in crowded
environments. At close range, some versions of Wi-Fi, running on
suitable hardware\[disambiguation needed\] can achieve speeds of over 1
Gbps.

Anyone within range with a wireless network interface controller can
attempt to access a network; because of this, Wi-Fi is more vulnerable
to attack (called eavesdropping) than wired networks. Wi-Fi Protected
Access is a family of technologies created to protect information moving
across Wi-Fi networks and includes solutions for personal and enterprise
networks. Security features of Wi-Fi Protected Access have included
stronger protections and new security practices as the security
landscape has changed over time.

##  Wiki

A wiki is a website on which users collaboratively modify content and
structure directly from the web browser. In a typical wiki, text is
written using a simplified markup language and often edited with the
help of a rich-text editor.

A wiki is run using wiki software, otherwise known as a wiki engine. A
wiki engine is a type of content management system, but it differs from
most other such systems, including blog software, in that the content is
created without any defined owner or leader, and wikis have little
inherent structure, allowing structure to emerge according to the needs
of the users. There are dozens of different wiki engines in use, both
standalone and part of other software, such as bug tracking systems.
Some wiki engines are open source, whereas others are proprietary. Some
permit control over different functions (levels of access); for example,
editing rights may permit changing, adding, or removing material. Others
may permit access without enforcing access control. Other rules may be
imposed to organize content.

##  WiMAX

Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access

WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) is a family of
wireless communication standards based on the IEEE 802.16 set of
standards, which provide multiple physical layer (PHY) and Media Access
Control (MAC) options.

The name "WiMAX" was created by the WiMAX Forum, which was formed in
June 2001 to promote conformity and interoperability of the standard,
including the definition of predefined system profiles for commercial
vendors. The forum describes WiMAX as "a standards-based technology
enabling the delivery of last mile wireless broadband access as an
alternative to cable and DSL". IEEE 802.16m or WirelessMAN-Advanced was
a candidate for the 4G, in competition with the LTE Advanced standard.

WiMAX was initially designed to provide 30 to 40 megabit-per-second data
rates, with the 2011 update providing up to 1 Gbit/s for fixed stations

##  WIN-T

Warfighter Information Network - Tactical

WIN-T is the U.S. Army's tactical network backbone, providing secure
voice and data communications for soldiers on the battlefield without
the need for fixed infrastructure. By connecting soldiers with their
commanders, WIN-T is changing the way the U.S. Army fights by providing
life-saving information on-the-move, anywhere in the world. WIN-T
enables soldiers to:

-   Stream real-time video over the network

-   View a topographical map of friendly forces

-   Send texts requesting medical assistance

-   Digitally call for artillery support

-   Access mission command apps like CPOF and TIGR

    WIN-T INCREMENT 1: COMMUNICATIONS AT-THE-HALT\
    Originally known as the Joint Network Node Network (JNN-N) program,
    WIN-T Increment 1 (Inc. 1) began fielding in 2004 to support combat
    missions during Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi
    Freedom.

    With WIN-T Inc. 1, for the first time in history, the soldiers on
    the battlefield had a high-speed, interoperable voice and data
    communications network at the battalion level.

    WIN-T INCREMENT 2: COMMUNICATIONS ON-THE-MOVE\
    The Army's 10th Mountain Division was the first to field WIN-T
    Inc. 2 new capabilities when they deployed for Afghanistan in
    July 2013. WIN-T Inc. 2's unique value was immediately recognized,
    as it provided soldiers with communications even as fixed
    infrastructure was removed.

    The Tactical Communication Nodes in Inc. 2 took the first step in
    providing a mobile infrastructure on the battlefield. This includes
    mobile Point Of Presence systems (installed on select vehicles at
    battalion levels and above, which include four companies of up to
    200 soldiers and about 10 to 30 vehicles each), vehicle wireless
    packages, and the Soldier Network Extension (for Company-level
    connectivity).

    Increment 2 enables mission command from brigade to division to
    company through a completely ad-hoc, self-forming network.
    Commanders and select staff now have the ability to maneuver
    anywhere on the battlefield and maintain connectivity to the
    network, without the need to stop and set up communications, making
    them vulnerable to attack.

    ![](./images/W/15009219.png?width=480)

##  Wireless Mesh Network

\
![](./images/W/15009225.png?width=479)\
A wireless mesh network (WMN) is a communications network made up of
radio nodes organized in a mesh topology. It is also a form of wireless
ad hoc network.

A mesh refers to rich interconnection among devices or nodes. Wireless
mesh networks often consist of mesh clients, mesh routers and gateways.
Mobility of nodes is less frequent. If nodes were to constantly or
frequently move, the mesh will spend more time updating routes than
delivering data. In a wireless mesh network, topology tends to be more
static, so that routes computation can converge and delivery of data to
their destinations can occur. Hence, this is a low-mobility centralized
form of wireless ad hoc network. Also, because it sometimes relies on
static nodes to act as gateways, it is not a truly all-wireless ad hoc
network.

The mesh clients are often laptops, cell phones and other wireless
devices while the mesh routers forward traffic to and from the gateways
which may, but need not, be connected to the Internet. The coverage area
of the radio nodes working as a single network is sometimes called a
mesh cloud. Access to this mesh cloud is dependent on the radio nodes
working in harmony with each other to create a radio network. A mesh
network is reliable and offers redundancy. When one node can no longer
operate, the rest of the nodes can still communicate with each other,
directly or through one or more intermediate nodes. Wireless mesh
networks can self form and self heal. Wireless mesh networks work with
different wireless technologies including 802.11, 802.15, 802.16,
cellular technologies and need not be restricted to any one technology
or protocol.

##  Wireless Repeater

A wireless repeater (also called wireless range extender) takes an
existing signal from a wireless router or wireless access point and
rebroadcasts it to create a second network. When two or more hosts have
to be connected with one another over the IEEE 802.11 protocol and the
distance is too long for a direct connection to be established, a
wireless repeater is used to bridge the gap. It can be a specialized
stand alone computer networking device. Also, some Wireless network
interface controllers (WNIC)s optionally support operating in such a
mode. Those outside of the primary network will be able to connect
through the new "repeated" network. However, as far as the original
router or access point is concerned, only the repeater MAC is connected,
making it necessary to enable safety features on the wireless repeater.
Wireless repeaters are commonly used to improve signal range and
strength within homes and small offices.

##  Wireshark

Wireshark is a free and open source packet analyzer. It is used for
network troubleshooting, analysis, software and communications protocol
development, and education. Originally named Ethereal, the project was
renamed Wireshark in May 2006 due to trademark issues.\
![](./images/W/15009231.png?width=477)

##  WISP

Wireless ISP

A wireless Internet service provider (WISP) is an Internet service
provider with a network based on wireless networking. Technology may
include commonplace Wi-Fi wireless mesh networking, or proprietary
equipment designed to operate over open 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, 4.9, 5, 24,
and 60 GHz bands or licensed frequencies in the UHF band (including the
MMDS frequency band), LMDS, and other bands from 6Ghz to 80Ghz.\
![](./images/W/15009237.png?width=480)

##  WLR

Wholesale Line Rental

Wholesale line rental (WLR) is a service in which a telecommunications
operator takes control of all the connections made through a telephone
line from the native operator and collects the subscription fee from the
subscribers.

With WLR the alternative telecoms provider buys a wholesale product from
the incumbent (usually in conjunction with a wholesale call product such
as CPS) and is then able to produce a single bill for the end user
covering calls and line rental. Broadband services can also be provided
by the WLR operator (and included in a single bill) if a separate
wholesale DSL product is purchased from the incumbent, but this is
optional.

##  WMA

Windows Media Audio

Windows Media Audio (WMA) is the name of a series of audio codecs and
their corresponding audio coding formats developed by Microsoft. It is a
proprietary technology that forms part of the Windows Media framework.
WMA consists of four distinct codecs. The original WMA codec, known
simply as WMA, was conceived as a competitor to the popular MP3 and
RealAudio codecs. WMA Pro, a newer and more advanced codec, supports
multichannel and high resolution audio. A lossless codec, WMA Lossless,
compresses audio data without loss of audio fidelity (the regular WMA
format is lossy).\[3\] WMA Voice, targeted at voice content, applies
compression using a range of low bit rates.

##  Work Breakdown Structure

WBS

A representation of all work (*activities* and *tasks*) on a project,
decomposed into *work packages*. The *WBS* provides the fundamental
project management view of a project. Smaller projects may capture their
WBS implicitly in *work plans* or *detailed schedules*. Larger projects
will often define the *WBS* as a separate artifact.

##  Work Item

Synonym for *artifact*.

##  Work Package

WP

A leaf element of a *WBS,* often defined as a tangible deliverable.
Bottom-up project estimation and planning is driven by work packages and
is often captured in a *work plan*. *Work packages* are normally broken
down into *activities* and *tasks* for *task estimation* and *detailed
scheduling*.

##  Work Plan

A key project artifact that captures *work packages* along with
their *task estimates.* Used to plan, track, and control detailed
execution. See *CxGuide\_EarnedValueWorkPlan*.

##  Work Product

Synonym for *artifact*.

##  WPA2

Wi-Fi Protected Access

Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) and Wi-Fi Protected Access II (WPA2) are
two security protocols and security certification programs developed by
the Wi-Fi Alliance to secure wireless computer networks. The Alliance
defined these in response to serious weaknesses researchers had found in
the previous system, Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP).

WPA (sometimes referred to as the draft IEEE 802.11i standard) became
available in 2003. The Wi-Fi Alliance intended it as an intermediate
measure in anticipation of the availability of the more secure and
complex WPA2, which became available in 2004 and is a common shorthand
for the full IEEE 802.11i (or IEEE 802.11i-2004) standard.

##  WPS

Wi-Fi Protected Setup

Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS; originally, Wi-Fi Simple Config) is a
network security standard to create a secure wireless home network.

Created by the Wi-Fi Alliance and introduced in 2006, the goal of the
protocol is to allow home users who know little of wireless security and
may be intimidated by the available security options to set up Wi-Fi
Protected Access, as well as making it easy to add new devices to an
existing network without entering long passphrases. Prior to the
standard, several competing solutions were developed by different
vendors to address the same need.

##  write-only code

code that is hard to read.

##  WS-BPEL

Web Services Business Process Execution Language

BPEL was developed to address the differences between programming in the
large and programming in the small. This term is also known as Web
Services Business Process Execution Language (WS-BPEL), and is sometimes
written as business process execution language for Web Services.

##  WSDL

Web Services Description Language

The Web Services Description Language is an XML-based interface
definition language that is used for describing the functionality
offered by a web service. The acronym is also used for any specific WSDL
description of a web service (also referred to as a WSDL file), which
provides a machine-readable description of how the service can be
called, what parameters it expects, and what data structures it returns.
Therefore, its purpose is roughly similar to that of a type signature in
a programming language.

The current version of WSDL is WSDL 2.0. The meaning of the acronym has
changed from version 1.1 where the "D" stood for "Definition".

![](./images/W/15009243.png?width=480)

```{=html}
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
```
`<description xmlns="http://www.w3.org/ns/wsdl" xmlns:tns="http://www.tmsws.com/wsdl20sample" xmlns:whttp="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/http/"xmlns:wsoap="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/"targetNamespace="http://www.tmsws.com/wsdl20sample">`{=html}\
`<documentation>`{=html}This is a sample WSDL 2.0 document.
`</documentation>`{=html}\
`<!-- Abstract type -->`{=html}`<types>`{=html}`<xs:schema xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"xmlns="http://www.tmsws.com/wsdl20sample"targetNamespace="http://www.example.com/wsdl20sample">`{=html}
`<xs:element name="request">`{=html} ...
`</xs:element>`{=html}`<xs:element name="response">`{=html} ...
`</xs:element>`{=html}`</xs:schema>`{=html}`</types>`{=html}\
`<!-- Abstract interfaces -->`{=html}`<interface name="Interface1">`{=html}`<fault name="Error1" element="tns:response"/>`{=html}`<operation name="Get" pattern="http://www.w3.org/ns/wsdl/in-out">`{=html}`<input messageLabel="In" element="tns:request"/>`{=html}
```{=html}
<output messageLabel="Out" element="tns:response"/>
```
`</operation>`{=html}`</interface>`{=html}\
`<!-- Concrete Binding Over HTTP -->`{=html}
`<!-- Web Service offering endpoints for both bindings-->`{=html}`<service name="Service1" interface="tns:Interface1">`{=html}`<endpoint name="HttpEndpoint" binding="tns:HttpBinding" address="http://www.example.com/rest/"/>`{=html}`<endpoint name="SoapEndpoint" binding="tns:SoapBinding" address="http://www.example.com/soap/"/>`{=html}`</service>`{=html}`</description>`{=html}
