# LTE (4G)


Long-Term Evolution (LTE) is a standard for high-speed wireless
communication for mobile devices and data terminals, based on the
GSM/EDGE and UMTS/HSPA technologies. It increases the capacity and speed
using a different radio interface together with core network
improvements. The standard is developed by the 3GPP (3rd Generation
Partnership Project) and is specified in its Release 8 document series,
with minor enhancements described in Release 9. LTE is the upgrade path
for carriers with both GSM/UMTS networks and CDMA2000 networks. The
different LTE frequencies and bands used in different countries mean
that only multi-band phones are able to use LTE in all countries where
it is supported.

LTE is commonly marketed as 4G LTE & Advance 4G, but it does not meet
the technical criteria of a 4G wireless service, as specified in the
3GPP Release 8 and 9 document series for LTE Advanced. The requirements
were originally set forth by the ITU-R organization in the IMT Advanced
specification. However, due to marketing pressures and the significant
advancements that WiMAX, Evolved High Speed Packet Access and LTE bring
to the original 3G technologies, ITU later decided that LTE together
with the aforementioned technologies can be called 4G technologies. The
LTE Advanced standard formally satisfies the ITU-R requirements to be
considered IMT-Advanced.\[4\] To differentiate LTE Advanced and
WiMAX-Advanced from current 4G technologies, ITU has defined them as
"True 4G"

LTE-M

LTE-M (LTE-MTC \[Machine Type Communication\]), which includes eMTC
(enhanced Machine Type Communication), is a type of low power wide area
network (LPWAN) radio technology standard developed by 3GPP to enable a
wide range of cellular devices and services (specifically, for
machine-to-machine and Internet of Things applications). The
specification for eMTC (LTE Cat-M1) was frozen in 3GPP Release 13 (LTE
Advanced Pro), in June 2016. Other 3GPP IoT technologies include NB-IoT
and EC-GSM-IoT.

The advantage of LTE-M over NB-IoT is its comparatively higher data
rate, mobility, and voice over the network, but it requires more
bandwidth, is more costly, and cannot be put into guard band frequency
band for now. Compared to LTE Release 12 Cat-0 modem, an LTE-M model is
claimed to be 80% less expensive (in terms of the bill of materials),
support up to 18 dB better coverage, and a battery lifetime than can
last up to several years. In March 2019, the Global Mobile Suppliers
Association reported that over 100 operators had deployed/launched
either NB-IoT or LTE-M networks.

- **Downlink Peak Rate:** 1 Mbit

- **Uplink Peak Rate:** 1 Mbit

- **Latency:** 10-15 ms

- **Duplex Technology:** Half Duplex

- **Device Receive Bandwidth:** 1.4MHz to 5MHz

- **Device Transmit Power:** 20 dBm

